<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="abbreviations">
    <glossterm>ABBREVIATIONS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement</u><p>This entry applies across the Orlando Project: stylistic
                practice issues around abbreviations.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><ul><li>Names of entry subjects can be abbreviated within the Biography and Writing documents
                to the initial capitals used in the Standard Name. Jane Austen > JA, Marie-Catherine
                d’Aulnoy > MCA.</li> <li>Do not punctuate abbreviations with periods if abbreviation ends
                with the same letter as the word. For example, use Mr or Mrs or Dr (no period) but
                Prof. and the Rev. (periods). Note that we use the definite article with the Rev.</li> <li>Do
                not abbreviate Street, Avenue, Boulevard, etc. Spell out names in full.</li> <li>Do not
                abbreviate Mount to Mt. Abbreviate "Saint" to "St" in placenames; for example, use
                "St Tropez" and not "Saint Tropez".</li> <li>Do NOT abbreviate names of regions unless you
                have used the reg attribute on Region to specify the region’s full name. When you
                encounter words or phrases such as member of parliament, per annum, ounces, or
                pounds, please spell them out.</li> <li>Do not use abbreviations. We want to use symbols only
                for dollars, British sterling, and the ampersand (where necessary, e.g. In quoting
                from ms). These should be included as entity references.</li></ul></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
