<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="address">
    <glossterm>ADDRESS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>ADDRESS, a sub-element within <term
                    keyref="place">PLACE</term>, captures the specific address where a person lived
                or where a specific and significant event occurred. It is available within Biography
                and Writing documents and in free-standing events, and is placed around one or more
                    <userinput>AddrLine</userinput>. <userinput>AddrLine</userinput> is a required
                sub-element before words are allowed. Address has two optional attributes,
                    <userinput>Current</userinput> and <userinput>Reg</userinput>.</p><p> This
                element might be used in the future for mapping Orlando data. Before tagging an
                address, consider whether it is significant enough to capture in XML (if a woman
                writer lived at the address, capture it; if she visited a friend there, probably
                not). Often for recent writers many addresses are available. Don't include them all.
                Include only those significant to the document you are writing. Use Reg attribute
                only in case of obsolete or wrong spelling (within quote); use Current and Reg when
                street name or number has changed.</p>
            <p> The following types of information can be captured under address: </p><ul>
                <li>Private house names (a British phenomenon) and numbered street address (Dunromin
                    or The Nook is part of Address; Sissinghurst Castle is a <term
                        keyref="place-name">PLACENAME</term>).</li>
                <li> Street names and squares when they act as addresses and not placenames.</li>
                <li>Lanes, Terraces, Places, Walks</li>
                <li>Parts of streets: i.e., Upper Wimpole Street [Note: provide
                        <userinput>Reg</userinput> attribute for "Wimpole" in order to ensure the
                    address is indexed in the appropriate place.]</li>
            </ul></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;ADDRESS&gt;&lt;ADDRLINE&gt;14 Queen&apos;s Row&lt;/ADDRLINE&gt;
                &lt;/ADDRESS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock> &lt;ADDRESS&gt;&lt;ADDRLINE&gt;George
                Terrace&lt;/ADDRLINE&gt;&lt;/ADDRESS&gt; </codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;ADDRESS&gt;&lt;ADDRLINE&gt;Commercial Road&lt;/ADDRLINE&gt;&lt;/ADDRESS&gt;
                </codeblock><codeblock> She lived in
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;ADDRESS&gt;&lt;ADDRLINE&gt;King
                Street&lt;/ADDRESS&gt;&lt;ADDRLINE&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; in
                &lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;London&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;REGION
                REG=”Middlesex”&gt;&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG REG=”England”&lt;/GEOG&gt;. British
                practice uses &quot;in&quot; not &quot;on&quot; for streets etc. </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>See <place keyref="place">PLACE</place> for general practice issues. Do not
                abbreviate Street, Avenue, Boulevard, etc. Spell out names in full. Do not put a
                number sign (#) before street numbers in addresses. 14 Queen's Row Use multiple
                address lines as you would when addressing an envelope for mailing. See <term
                    keyref="place-name">PLACENAME</term> for distinction between Address and
                Placename. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
