<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="author-summary">
    <glossterm>AUTHORSUMMARY</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>AUTHORSUMMARY is placed at the opening of
                    <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> entries. As the equivalent of a Div1, it
                occurs outside any Div1, standing on its own. It is devised for researchers to make
                summary statements about an author before opening individual <term
                    keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term>, <term keyref="reception"
                >RECEPTION</term>, or <term keyref="textual-feautures">TEXTUALFEATURES</term>
                elements. You are encouraged to use this element to preface the writing document of
                each woman writer. It is useful both for minor writers about whom little is known,
                and for major writers whose work needs to be summarized before launching into the
                details. It must be as brief as possible, while situating its subject as to period,
                most characteristic genres, and reasons for interest in her. It allows use of three
                main sub-elements: <term keyref="extent-of-oeuvre">EXTENTOFOEUVRE</term>, <term
                    keyref="genre-name">GENRENAME</term>, and <term keyref="generic-range"
                    >GENERICRANGE</term>. If you need to say more, then move into a PRODUCTION,
                RECEPTION, or TEXTUALFEATURES element. The usual Div1 inclusions are also available
                within <term keyref="author-summary">AUTHORSUMMARY</term>: <term keyref="name"
                    >NAME</term>, <term keyref="date">DATE</term>, <term keyref="place"
                >PLACE</term>, and <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term>. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;AUTHORSUMMARY&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;&lt;GENERICRANGE&gt;Anne
                Clifford&apos;s known writings fall into two groups: the diaries she kept as a young
                woman, and the writings of her old age, which mix
                &lt;GENRENAME&gt;diary&lt;/GENRENAME&gt;,
                &lt;GENRENAME&gt;autobiography&lt;/GENRENAME&gt;, and writing about her
                family.&lt;GENERICRANGE/&gt;&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/AUTHORSUMMARY&gt;
                </codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;AUTHORSUMMARY&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;&lt;EXTENTOFOEUVRE&gt;Elizabeth
                Cellier&apos;s output amounts to three pamphlets on topical religious and gender
                issues.&lt;/EXTENTOFOEUVRE&gt;&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/AUTHORSUMMARY&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Although this element can in principle be used anywhere, the beginning of the
                document is its normal place. You should limit its length to roughly 160 words where
                possible. Be sure to tag all instances of <term keyref="genre-names"
                    >GENRENAMES</term> appearing in the AUTHORSUMMARY in addition to tagging the
                GENERICRANGE (where possible). Note that this paragraph is part of the WRITING
                schema, not <term keyref="life">LIFE</term>. It displays, however, on the Overview
                screen not the WRITING screen; some repetition is therefore permissible. Needs to be
                brief for effective display, while providing information on the author’s period and
                most characteristic genres, and what is of greatest interest about her.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
