<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="bib-cit">
    <glossterm>BIBCIT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement</u><p>BIBCIT is an element, available nearly everywhere from
                the Div0 level down, is designed to capture bibliographical information in much the
                same way as an MLA parenthetical citation. Each BIBCIT or group of <term
                    keyref="bib-cits">BIBCITS</term> must be enclosed in a BIBCITS tag. All research
                information and quotations must be followed by a BIBCIT indicating the source of
                this information or quotation. There are a few exceptions to this rule. Discussion
                of a BWW's texts associated with <term keyref="textual-features"
                    >TEXTUALFEATURES</term> (in the <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> sections
                of entries) do not require BIBCITS if they are the product of the Project member
                writing the document. The Orlando Project's BIBCITS follow MLA style: <q>Pedersen
                    90; Holton, Suffrage 107-8; qtd. in Hume 76.</q> However, much of this
                information, including the author's name, short title, and the abbreviation "qtd.
                in," will be stored in attributes and rendered through various stylesheets. In its
                final form within an SGML document, the text of a BIBCIT will contain page, or
                volume and page, numbers only, and may sometimes even be empty if no page number is
                required (in the case of alphabetically arranged reference books, for example).
                BIBCITS go just inside the end tag of whatever piece of information they apply to
                (but outside a <codeph>&lt;quote&gt;</codeph> tag unless the quote is long enough
                for indenting). In events documents, for example, BIBCITS go before the end tag for
                the whole <term keyref="chronstruct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>. In author entries, bibCits
                for chronEvents should occur just before the closing tag; and bibCits that refer to
                entire paragraphs should appear inside the closing <codeph>&lt;/q&gt;</codeph> tag.
                You need to have a BIBCIT after each direct quotation, and please use them as
                frequently as necessary throughout the prose writing in your doc to make the job
                easier for source checkers. </p></div>
        <div><u>Relationships</u><p>This element is equivalent to other globally available elements
                such as <term keyref="title">TITLE</term>, <term keyref="scholar-note"
                    >SCHOLARNOTE</term>, and <term keyref="research-note">RESEARCHNOTE</term>.The
                BIBCIT tag has three different attributes: BIBCIT PLACEHOLDER: the bibcit
                placeholder retains the text of the original, MLA-style BIBCIT. Note that <term
                    keyref="place-holder">PLACEHOLDER</term> normally includes author short name,
                short title (reg form not necessary) and publication date. DBREF: the dbref, or
                database reference number, is the number of Orlando’s corresponding bibliographic
                citation for the source cited; this number can be determined by looking up the
                source in the bibliography database. <term keyref="qtd-in">QTDIN</term>: attribute
                whose value <userinput>QTDIMYES</userinput> applies to those quotations which would
                be preceded by <q>qtd. in</q>; for example, if you are providing a quotation from a
                BWW and your source is a secondary source which imbeds this quotation within its own
                text. When you quote from a quoted passage in a secondary source (eg, a biography
                which quotes from diaries, letters, etc), then you choose the attribute
                    <codeph>QTDIN=”QTDINYES"</codeph>. This will get rendered down the road; you do
                not need to write in the words <q>qtd. in</q>. When writing documents, fill in the
                BIBCIT attributes as you proceed. As a courtesy to future source-checkers, provide
                the author and/or short title in both the BIBCIT Placeholder and in the actual text
                of the BIBCIT proper; source checkers will delete everything but page or page
                equivalent from the BIBCIT text as they check each reference.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Examples</u>
            <p>Here's how you should handle information that is derived from a footnote in your
                primary source: Crook 127n9 takes no punctuation and no spaces (except between the
                author's last name and the page reference). You should use this only when the
                information you cite comes from the footnote. </p><p>Here's how you should handle
                citations from continuously paginated multi-volume references: short title volume
                number (year): issue number, date (in parentheses), page number. E.g. <q>Athanæum
                    1370 (April 1854): 117.</q> Include month and day as well as year where
                possible. If you have only the year or only the volume, then use the following
                model: <q>Punch 254: 62. TLS (1963): 941.</q>
            </p><p> When a series has issue numbers as well as volume numbers, and page numbering
                begins at one with each new issue, then follow this model: volume number: issue
                number (date): page number. E.g. <q>Writers Unlimited 12: 3 (Summer 1999): 40.</q>
            </p><p> For alphabetically-arranged reference works, page numbers are not required
                provided that it is clear which article is being used. For example, biographical
                dictionaries do not require page numbers unless you are using an entry about someone
                other than the subject of your document. Some examples of single-volume
                alphabetically arranged reference works which do not require page numbers are: <ul>
                    <li>Berney, K.A., ed. Contemporary Women Dramatists, 1994</li>
                    <li> Boylan, Henry, ed. A Dictionary of Irish Biography, 1978</li>
                    <li> Brady, Anne M. and Brian Cleeve, A Biographical Dictionary of Irish
                        Writers, 1985</li>
                    <li> Buck, Clare, ed. Bloomsbury Guide to Women's Literature,1992</li>
                    <li> Harris, Sharon, ed. American Women Writers to 1800, 1996</li>
                    <li> Hartnoll, Phyllis, ed. The Oxford Companion to Theatre 4th ed., 1983</li>
                    <li> Klein, Kathleen Gregory, ed. Great Women Mystery Writers, 1994</li>
                    <li> Joanne Shattock, The Oxford Guide to British Women Writers, 1993</li>
                    <li> Paul Schleuter and June Schleuter, An Encyclopedia of British Women
                        Writers, 1988</li>
                    <li> Janet Todd, ed. Dictionary of British Women Writers, 1989</li>
                    <li> Janet Todd, ed. A Dictionary of British and American Women Writers,
                        1660-1800, 1985</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><b>BibCits and Quotes</b> All quote tags should be followed by a BIBCIT as if the
                sentence had normal spacing without the bibCit. It was originally opened by Queen
                Victoria as the People's Palace, a place of <codeph>&lt;QUOTE DIRECT=”Y”&gt;rational
                    and instructive entertainment and of artistic
                    enjoyment&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;BIBCIT&gt;&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;</codeph> for the people of
                East London. <b>Note:</b> Unlike the MLA style of documentation, there should be no
                space between the BIBCIT and whatever goes before it, whether that is a closing
                quote tag or end-of-sentence punctuation. There is no space between the end of the
                quote and the beginning of the BIBCIT, but there is a space after the BIBCIT before
                the following word.</p><p>If a single source is quoted multiple times in one
                sentence, the BIBCIT should immediately follow the end of the sentence. Note: if
                source is used to supply information beyond the quotation, then a BIBCIT must ALSO
                be included there according to standard BibCit practice. If a person other than the
                author of the work cited in the BibCit is quoted then use the QtdInYes value on the
                QTDIN attribute of the BibCit. If one Quote tag (attribute value Direct=<q>N</q>) is
                embedded inside another (attribute value Direct=<q>Y</q>), do not use QTDINYES. Page
                ranges should not repeat numbers (e.g. 65-6 NOT 65-66, except in the teens: 16-17
                NOT 16-7). Every quote should have a BIBCIT. When you use the abbreviation ff (=this
                and following pages) in a BIBCIT, it does not need a period. Spacing should read
                properly when the BIBCIT is removed. If you are using two books by one author in the
                same document, use short titles to distinguish between the two: lastname, short
                title, ##. Use a BIBCIT for each, with correct DBREF number for each. BLC or other
                shelfmarks. Do not use these in <term keyref="bibliography"
                    >BIBLIOGRAPHY</term>. Mention them in the prose only in the case of extremely
                rare material. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> How do I BIBCIT a publication <term keyref="chronstruct"
                    >CHRONSTRUCT</term> when my source is the book itself? </p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Every <term keyref="chronstruct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> needs a BIBCIT,
                so consider citing a library catalogue. In <term keyref="short-prose"
                    >SHORTPROSE</term> and &lt;p&gt;, don't worry about adding a BIBCIT; a <term
                    keyref="research-note">RESEARCHNOTE</term> specifying the source of the
                information (the title page of the book, for instance) will make more sense than
                trying to manufacture a BIBCIT. For multi-volume reference works, include both
                volume and page numbers. You must also specify which edition of the reference work
                you are using. This information does not need to appear in the BIBCIT itself, but it
                must appear in the corresponding bibrecord in the bibl db, and you must make sure
                that the DBREF number you provide is for the correct edition. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
