<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="birth">
    <glossterm>BIRTH</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Birth is one of the 16 major <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> elements defined as integral to mapping a
                woman's life. It captures information concerning the date, place, birth position and
                context of a person's birth where known. Birthdates should be entered in <term
                    keyref="chronstruct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> form where available, for extraction
                from individual biography documents to be placed within other general chronologies.
                This mandatory element is usually the second Div1 content element in a BIOGRAPHY
                section (after <term keyref="person-name">PERSONNAME</term>). It will almost always
                include a chronstruct for date of birth, and has one sub-element, <term
                    keyref="birth-position">BIRTHPOSITION</term>, for capturing position in family
                (attributes <userinput>Eldest</userinput>, <userinput>Youngest</userinput>,
                    <userinput>Only</userinput>), or more general description</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <p>Birth should be entered as a chronology event with the form <q>HB was born in
                    London,</q> but also with some detail if possible to make a more interesting
                statement. Please use a full sentence with the verb in past tense. Whenever possible
                a place should be given for a woman writer's birth, to facilitate mapping of
                locations. </p><p> Only one place tag should be included inside birth elements; it
                is assumed that the place tagged within birth is the location of the woman writer's
                birth and will be mapped accordingly. If you want to record a place of baptism, do
                it in attached <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>. Should contain a
                CHRONSTRUCT if there is solid information; if birthdate is a mystery Birth should
                contain a <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term> including a tagged date with
                attribute indicating uncertainty. Identify place of birth if possible, describe and
                tag position in family where known; do not tag parents’ names here.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What happens if the birth date is unknown?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Since birth is a required element, include a sentence conveying the
                information that birth date is unknown or uncertain or contested. In these
                instances, it is suggested that the researcher include a research note detailing the
                sources they have checked trying to locate a date so that research will not be
                duplicated. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
