<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="children">
    <glossterm>CHILDREN</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-element can be found in
                expressed, tagg it as <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="family">FAMILY</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It systematizes information concerning the number of children a
                woman had and is meant to capture issues around children rather than a discussion of
                specific children. It allows us to discuss her children in general outside the
                context of this or that child. It should be placed around the whole sentence
                describing the number of children she had. You can systematically capture the number
                of children in the attached attribute <term keyref="number">NUMBER</term>. It is
                clearly related to the element CHILDLESSNESS, but it is very seldom that both are
                used in the same entry.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;CHILDREN NUMBER=&quot;2&quot;&gt;LF had a son and a
                daughter.&lt;/CHILDREN&gt; </codeblock><codeblock>&lt;CHILDREN
                NUMBER=&quot;5&quot;&gt;MI gave birth to five children.&lt;/CHILDREN&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Often all we know is that a woman writer had five children; therefore, there is no
                information to include within a specific member sub-element. However, we do not want
                to lose the information that she was a mother and we capture it by including the
                general comment and placing this tag around the fact that she had five children. If
                a woman had three children from her first marriage and two from her second, we want
                to capture the TOTAL number of children she had. This means that the <term
                    keyref="number">NUMBER</term> attribute on each Children element would read
                    <q>5.</q> The Number attribute should be filled out wherever possible. Do not
                include a discussion of a specific child within this element. Open a <term
                    keyref="member">MEMBER</term>=<term keyref="child">CHILD</term> sub-element. Complications in pregnancy,
                fertility treatment, etc. resulting in children can be mentioned under CHILDREN if
                this seems appropriate as well as under <term keyref="health"
                >HEALTH</term>=<term keyref="feamle-body">FEMALEBODY</term>.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Are stepchildren to be included in the number of children? Or just
                birth and adopted children? <b>Answer:</b> Include stepchildren. The CHILDREN
                element is meant to direct our user to a discussion of women's involvement with
                their children and stepchildren can be as important and central to a woman's life as
                the children to whom she gave birth. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
