<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="chron-struct">
    <glossterm>CHRONSTRUCT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>A CHRONSTRUCT, available through the
                textbase, is an element that holds together and therefore associates a <term
                    keyref="date">DATE</term> with the <term keyref="chron-prose">CHRONPROSE</term>
                that describes an event. It can contain only these two sub-elements plus a <term
                    keyref="bib-cit">BIBCIT</term>. You are not permitted to type directly into this
                element. A CHRONSTRUCT can include only one <term keyref="date">DATE</term>,
                DateRange, or DateStruct followed by the <term keyref="chron-prose"
                    >CHRONPROSE</term>. Although you may not include two <term keyref="date"
                    >DATE</term>s before the <term keyref="chron-prose">CHRONPROSE</term>, you are
                allowed to use the <term keyref="date">DATE</term> element again inside the
                chronProse if needed. </p><p> In free-standing events a CHRONSTRUCT is contained by
                a <term keyref="chron-event">CHRONEVENT</term>. In entries (<term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> and <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> sections), it
                normally appears inside a <term keyref="div2">DIV2</term> tag. CHRONSTRUCT is better
                inside than without a <term keyref="div2">DIV2</term> tag (though the schema allows
                either), for consistency and rendering search results. In all cases it is modified
                by the required <term keyref="chron-column">CHRONCOLUMN</term> attribute. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;CHRONSTRUCT
                CHRONCOLUMN=&quot;NATIONALINTERNATIONAL&quot;&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;July
                1832&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;The Friends of the Oppressed was established by a
                group of politically active London
                women.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;</codeblock><codeblock> &lt;CHRONSTRUCT
                CHRONCOLUMN=&quot;NATIONALINTERNATIONAL&quot;&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1 April
                1905&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;Penny Post became available one-way from the
                United Kingdom to Australia.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Because CHRONSTRUCTS may be removed from the documents in which they were created and
                be placed in search results alongside unrelated information, always make sure that
                you put enough information in a CHRONSTRUCT for it to make sense when read out of
                context. make sure that any <term keyref="name">NAME</term>S, <term keyref="date"
                    >DATE</term>S, <term keyref="place">PLACE</term>S, and <term keyref="org-name"
                    >ORGNAME</term>S are tagged inside a CHRONSTRUCT. Also, do not use pronouns in a
                CHRONSTRUCT unless their referent is also present.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
