<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="chron-event">
    <glossterm>CHRONEVENT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>CHRONEVENT is an element contained by a
                    <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term>, that holds together a single <term
                    keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> element and perhaps an optional <term
                    keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>: all relevant information pertaining to a
                free-standing chronology event as well as its explanatory material. Each CHRONEVENT
                should have at least one <term keyref="bib-cit">BIBCIT</term> associated with it. In
                author entries (both <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> and <term
                    keyref="writing">WRITING</term> sections), CHRONEVENTS are not needed:
                CHRONSTRUCTS (sometimes followed in the same <term keyref="div2">DIV2</term> by a
                contextual or explanatory <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>) do without
                this element. CHRONEVENTs have in the past been collected in an events document
                ready for processing into the system. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;CHRONEVENT&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT
                CHRONCOLUMN=&quot;writingClimate&quot;&gt;&lt;DATE
                CERTAINTY=&quot;cert&quot;&gt;1960&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;The trial by jury
                of Penguin Books regarding the publication of Lady Chatterly&apos;s Lover by D.H.
                Lawrence began at the Old Bailey.
                &lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/CHRONEVENT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Those
                called in as expert witnesses included E.M. Forster, Helen Gardner, C. Day Lewis,
                Dilys Powell, Professor Vivian de Sola Pinto, Janet Adam Smith, Sir Stanley Unwin,
                and Dame Rebecca
                West.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;BIBCITS&gt;&lt;BIBCIT&gt;Craig
                163&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;&lt;/BIBCITS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;CHRONEVENT&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT
                CHRONCOLUMN=&quot;nationalInternational&quot;&gt;&lt;DATE
                CERTAINTY=&quot;cert&quot;&gt;1911&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;The Local
                Authorities (Ireland) Qualification of Women Act gave women the right to become
                councillors or aldermen on Iriah county
                councils.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/CHROEVENT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Women
                in England, Wales and Scotland had received this same right in
                1907.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;BIBCITS&gt;&lt;BIBCIT&gt;Halevy
                519&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;&lt;/BIBCITS&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Individual CHRONEVENTS will appear in search results on the over-arching project
                chronology or within subject-specific timelines and time-specific timelines. Because
                of the multiple contexts in which a CHRONEVENT can appear, it is vital that each
                event be conceptually independent. Please make sure that all pronouns used in a
                CHRONEVENT have their referent in the chronProse of that event. Also make sure that
                all <term keyref="name">NAME</term>S, <term keyref="date">DATE</term>S, <term
                    keyref="place">PLACE</term>S, and <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term>S are
                tagged once per CHRONEVENT.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
