<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="class-issue">
    <glossterm>CLASSISSUE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>CLASSISSUE is a significant sub-element
                in expressed, tagg it as <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="cultural-formation"
                        >CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It is used to discuss the significance of class in a person's life.
                In conjunction with the <term keyref="class">CLASS</term> element, CLASSISSUE allows
                us to capture nuanced material about how the socio-economic conditions of her family
                and herself affected her life and writing. We understand that class is a shifting
                category and that a person's class position changes over the course of her life, for
                example on marriage. We also understand that class categories are historically and
                culturally specific. The CLASSISSUE element is meant to capture discussions of these
                complexities and allow for the historical and biographical specificities of one's
                relation to class. Within CLASSISSUE, you can if you need to access any of the other
                subelements appropriate to the discussion of CULTURALFORMATION: <term keyref="class"
                    >CLASS</term>, <term>DENOMINATION</term>, <term keyref="ethnicity"
                    >ETHNICITY</term>, <term keyref="gender">GENDER</term>, <term
                    keyref="geo-herritage">GEOGHERRITAGE</term>, <term keyref="language"
                    >LANGUAGE</term>, <term keyref="national-herritage">NATIONALHERRITAGE</term>,
                    <term keyref="nationality">NATIONALITY</term>, <term
                    keyref="political-affiliation">POLITICALAFFILIATION</term>, <term
                    keyref="race-colour">RACECOLOUR</term>, and <term keyref="sexual-identity"
                    >SEXUALIDENTITY</term>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;CLASSISSUE&gt;IW shows how hazy are
                class boundaries at this date. Her father &lt;CLASS
                SOCIALRANK=&quot;gentry&quot;&gt;owned a little land&lt;/CLASS&gt;; her brother was
                a &lt;CLASS SOCIALRANK=&quot;professional&quot;&gt;university-educated
                lawyer&lt;/CLASS&gt; and poet; yet she and her sisters seem to have worked as
                &lt;CLASS SOCIALRANK=&quot;servant&quot;&gt;servants&lt;/CLASS&gt; (perhaps skilled
                servants) in London. She sounds like a middle-class town-dweller, who thinks in
                terms of commerce before religion or
                rank.&lt;/CLASSISSUE&gt;&lt;/&gt;&lt;/CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;
            </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>If you can, include a <term keyref="class">CLASS</term> element or elements within
                CLASSISSUE to specify the class to which this discussion applies.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If she married into a wealthy family and this changed her financial
                status, does this event belong in <term keyref="wealth">WEALTH</term>, CLASSISSUE,
                or <term keyref="family">FAMILY</term>? <b>Answer:</b> Changes in her class status
                should be described within <term keyref="cultural-formation"
                    >CULTURALFORMATION</term> and within CLASSISSUE, with <term keyref="class"
                    >CLASS</term> elements, and should be placed in the document about when the
                change occurred, perhaps following a statement about the marriage (in the element
                    <term keyref="family">FAMILY</term>). </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
