<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="class">
    <glossterm>CLASS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This element is found in<menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="cultural-formation"
                        >CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It is sometimes within <term keyref="class-issue">CLASSISSUE</term>.
                Unlike <term keyref="class-issue">CLASSISSUE</term>, which contains detailed
                discussion of her class position, CLASS is meant to capture an identifying word or
                phrase. From this element users can generate lists of women writers who were
                working-class or aristocratic or whatever. It has optional attributes: Self-defined
                and <term keyref="social-rank">SOCIALRANK</term>. The latter offers a range of
                values, allowing you to express class in a standard way. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>JB was born into a &lt;CLASS
                SOCIALRANK=&quot;gentry&quot;&gt;propertied&lt;/CLASS&gt;
                family.</codeblock><codeblock> MM grew up in a &lt;CLASS
                SOCIALRANK=&quot;professional&quot;&gt;&quot;landowning,
                parliamentary&quot;&lt;/CLASS&gt; family, but was faced with financial difficulties
                once she &lt;CLASS SOCIALRANK=&quot;gentry&quot;&gt;inherited her father&apos;s
                estate&lt;/CLASS&gt; along with its heavy debts.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>The structured vocabulary to be used for CLASS and <term keyref="social-rank"
                    >SOCIALRANK</term> is imperfect. Try to use the term that best suits your
                writer. Use multiple times if her class position shifted throughout her life.
                Include a <term keyref="social-rank">SOCIALRANK</term> attribute if you can. When
                there is much doubt around this classification, say so in the prose, and consider
                using the <term keyref="class-issue">CLASSISSUE</term> tag.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
