<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="date-range">
    <glossterm>DATERANGE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Global element for recording stretches of
                time; can be used everywhere where it is possible to type text (paragraphs, <term
                    keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>, <term keyref="chron-prose"
                    >CHRONPROSE</term>). Every CHRONSTRUCT requires either <term keyref="date"
                    >DATE</term>, DATERANGE, or <term keyref="date-struct">DATESTRUCT</term>.
                Chronology search results deliver DATERANGEs before DATEs, as a useful reminder that
                history consists more of processes than of events. Can be used in a CHRONSTRUCT
                instead of DATE, but we try to be very selective about using DATERANGE for extended
                periods like an entry subject’s university career, job, etc, because on the whole a
                start date gives a more useful result. Through use of the <term keyref="certainty"
                    >CERTAINTY</term> attribute DATERANGE can define a certain span (of a journey, a
                lecture course etc.) or an uncertain point in a span. It contains only the text that
                is pertinent to expressing the range of dates at hand and should exclude all
                unnecessary punctuation. It has attributes <term keyref="calendar">CALENDAR</term>,
                    <term keyref="certainty">CERTAINTY</term>, <term keyref="to">TO</term>, <term
                    keyref="from">FROM</term>, and <term keyref="exact">EXACT</term>. The three last
                attributes combine to perform the same function that the <term keyref="value"
                    >VALUE</term> attribute performs in DATE and DATESTRUCT subelements.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;DATERANGE&gt;1899-March 1902&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;
                </codeblock><codeblock>Late in the &lt;DATERANGE FROM=&quot;1947&quot;
                TO=&quot;1949&quot;
                EXACT=&quot;none&quot;&gt;40s&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;</codeblock><codeblock> &lt;DATERANGE
                CERTAINTY=&quot;roughlyDated&quot; FROM=&quot;1847-05-11&quot;
                TO=&quot;1847-07-30&quot; EXACT=&quot;none&quot;&gt;During the
                voyage&lt;/DATERANGE&gt; to the colonies, she received word that her novel was
                accepted for publication.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>When entering DATERANGEs, follow the standard written format of
                standardDate1-standardDate2 (12 October 1933-23 October 1933). Such dates do not
                need to be standardised in the to and from attributes. When tagging a DateRange of
                years, please make sure you write the years numerically in full. For instance, do
                not write 1722-25, but 1722-1725. The following date expressions do not need to be
                regularized in attributes: <codeph>&lt;DATERANGE&gt;1899-1902&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;
                    </codeph><codeph> &lt;DATERANGE&gt;14 August 1742-12 March
                    1745&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;</codeph><codeph>&lt;DATERANGE&gt;April 1900-June
                    1900&lt;/DATERANGE&gt; </codeph><codeph>&lt;DATERANGE&gt;1899-March
                    1902&lt;/DATERANGE&gt; </codeph><codeph> &lt;DATERANGE&gt;27 January 1645-March
                        1656&lt;/DATERANGE&gt; </codeph><codeph>&lt;DATERANGE&gt;23 May
                    1972-1983&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;</codeph> Any dates that are not expressed in this
                regular fashion will need to have a To, From, and Exact attributes filled in.
                </p><p> When using a broad DateRange in a chronStruct, please remember the event
                will be sorted according to its opening date. </p><p> The attribute Exact combines
                with Certainty values to indicate reliability of dates at each end of the range
                specified, e.g.<codeph> &lt;DATERANGE CERTAINTY=&quot;Cert&quot;
                    FROM=&quot;1847-05-11&quot; TO=&quot;1847-07-30&quot;
                    EXACT=&quot;FROM&quot;&gt;From mid-May to the end of July
                    1847&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;</codeph> This means the start date is certain; the end
                date is less so. </p><p>
                <b>Checklist:</b> Make sure that each date you tag conforms to the following
                practice checklist </p><p>
                <ul>
                    <li>In checking, make sure format is correct: 7 January 1898 (the date can be
                        truncated from the left but not from the right). Are there any typos? Remove
                        any leading 0 in single-digit text dates.</li>
                    <li> If you are checking attributes, make sure format is correct: 1983-01-10,
                        1983-01-, 1983--. Make sure leading 0 is present for single-digit months and
                        days. Make sure both hyphens are present. Add text to tag if it is missing
                        (especially in chronStruct) </li>
                    <li>Where necessary, move spaces/punctuation (or add spaces) outside tag to
                        ensure doc reads properly </li>
                    <li>Remove any <term keyref="bib-cit">BIBCIT</term> in the tag and place them in
                        the appropriate place remove any research notes from inside the tag and
                        place them just outside the end tag (or delete it they are trivial and the
                        problem has been fixed) </li>
                    <li>Remove any empty date tags.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
