<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="death">
    <glossterm>DEATH</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>DEATH is one of the 16 major content
                elements defined as integral to mapping a woman's life in the Biography sections of
                entries. Where possible it captures information concerning the date, place, and
                cause of a writer's death. (Its single sub-element is <term keyref="cause"
                    >CAUSE</term>.) Death dates should be entered in <term keyref="chron-struct"
                    >CHRONSTRUCT</term> form and will be extracted from individual entries to appear
                in other general chronology search results. For most biographies, except those whose
                subjects are still alive, the DEATH element will be the last <term keyref="div1"
                    >DIV1</term> content element. (Occasionally it might be followed by posthumous
                information another <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> on <term keyref="family"
                    >FAMILY</term> or <term keyref="wealth">WEALTH</term>.) In all but a very few
                cases it will include a Chronstruct for the person's death date. (Burial, if
                mentioned, should be in an attached <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>,
                    <codeph>&lt;P&gt;</codeph>.).</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;HEADING&gt;Death&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;11
                July 1926&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;GB died in &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;
                Baghdad&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;She
                had been depressed for some time, and she took an overdose of sleeping pills to end
                her life. While private accounts of her death acknowledge her
                &lt;cause&gt;suicide&lt;/&gt;, the public record states that she died of natural
                causes.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt; </codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;HEADING&gt;Death&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;24
                March 1920&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;MAW died in
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;London&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; from
                gradual&lt;CAUSE&gt;heart
                failure&lt;/CAUSE&gt;.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;She
                is buried at Aldbury, Hertfordshire.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;
                </codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;HEADING&gt;Death&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;EN died
                sometime &lt;DATE CERTAINTY=”BY”&gt;before
                1975.&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Death should be entered as a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> whose
                bare bones are something like <q>HB died in London of cancer.</q> Variations or
                details always welcome to avoid a tabulated-data feel. To the best of the
                researcher's ability, a <term keyref="place">PLACE</term> should be given (and
                tagged with any available detail from <term keyref="address">ADDRESS</term> onwards)
                to enable mapping.</p><p> Only one PLACE tag should be included inside DEATH
                elements; it is assumed that the PLACE tagged within the CHRONSTRUCT of the DEATH
                element is the location where she died and will be mapped accordingly. If the burial
                place is also known and you wish to tag it as a place, please put the information in
                a SHORTPROSE after the CHRONSTRUCT describing the author's death.</p><p> To the best
                of the researcher’s ability, a <term keyref="cause">CAUSE</term> of death should be
                included. If information about place and cause is lacking, perhaps mention age at
                death.</p><p> If the death date is unknown, please include a research note list of
                sources consulted in researching the date so that research will not be
                duplicated.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u><p><b>Question:</b> What if there is no death date for a woman
                writer from the 17th century?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> According to the best information
                you have, you might include a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> with
                    <term keyref="certainty">CERTAINTY</term> attribute value <q>C</q>, <q>By</q> or
                    <q>After</q> so that the event could be reasonably slotted into the chronology.
                If the probability seems so low that a CHRONSTRUCT would be misleading, write a
                    <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term> including a <term keyref="date"
                    >DATE</term> tagged in the same way. </p><p>
                <codeph>&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;The date of ET’s death is unknown: no more is
                    heard of her &lt;DATE Value=”1698--” CERTAINTY=”After”&gt;after her book was
                    published.&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/P&gt;</codeph></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
