<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="degree">
    <glossterm>DEGREE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-element is found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It captures all degrees (BA, MA, PhD), diplomas, certificates, etc.
                received by the entry subject. It goes around the name of the degree, and has one
                optional attribute, <term keyref="reg">REG</term>, which allows you to express the
                degree in a standard way if you have been unable to do so in your prose. (Oxford
                gives a D.Phil. where others give a PhD, which would be the REG form.)</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>May 1968 HB received a &lt;DEGREE&gt;BA&lt;/DEGREE&gt; from Cambridge
                University. </codeblock><codeblock> May 1968 HB received an &lt;DEGREE&gt;Honours BA
                in English&lt;/DEGREE&gt; from Cambridge University.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Is CBE a degree?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> No, it means Companion of the
                British Empire. If given in recognition of achievements in literature, save it for
                the <term keyref="recognition">RECOGNITION</term> and <term
                    keyref="recognition-name">RECOGNITIONNAME</term> elements in the <term
                    keyref="writing">WRITING</term> subset. If given for other life achievements,
                then record the information in the appropriate chronological place in <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> tags, within the <term keyref="occupation"
                    >OCCUPATION</term> or <term keyref="politics">POLITICS</term> element. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Should an honorary degree go in Education?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> No;
                it is a form of recognition and should be tagged in WRITING as RECOGNITION. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> My writer attended a university before it granted degrees to women;
                however, she placed first in her class. How do I mark this?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> Put
                a <term keyref="degree">DEGREE</term> tag around whatever phrase in the sentence
                comes closest to describing a certificate or whatever.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
