<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="denomination">
    <glossterm>DENOMINATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-element can be found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="cultural-formation"
                        >CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It is specifically grouped with the larger <term keyref="religion"
                    >RELIGION</term> sub-element. Used to capture the names of religious beliefs and
                denominations associated with a person's life, we are defining DENOMINATION very
                broadly to include a wide range of categories from Christian to atheist to Buddhist
                to Seekers to Clapham Sect. While we recognize that many of the denominations listed
                below are conceptually different (for example, Buddhism is on a different
                hierarchical, conceptual level from Calvinist), for the purposes of this Project we
                are overlooking these distinctions.</p>
            <p>This element goes around the name of the denomination. To the best of your ability,
                select a name from the list of controlled vocabulary below and phrase your sentence
                to include the proper name (i.e. use <q>She was a Quaker</q> rather than
                    <q>Quakerism was her religion</q>). The tag has optional attributes of <term
                    keyref="current-alternative-term">CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM</term>, <term
                    keyref="self-defined">SELF-DEFINED</term>, and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>,
                which allows you to express the denomination in a standard form if you have been
                unable to do so in your prose.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt; PJB was a
                &lt;NATIONALITY&gt;Scottish&lt;/NATIONALITY&gt; writer and her later work reveals a
                &lt;DENOMINATION&gt;Unitarian&lt;/DENOMINATION&gt;
                bent.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/CULTURALFORMATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;UT converted
                from&lt;DENOMINATION REG=Anglican&gt;Anglicanism&lt;/DENOMINATION&gt; to
                &lt;DENOMINATION REG=Roman Catholic&gt;
                Catholicism.&lt;/DENOMINATION&gt;&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/CULTRUALFORMATION&gt;
                </codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;RELIGION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Her
                adoptive parents were &lt;DENOMINATION&gt;Pentecostal
                Evangelists.&lt;/DENOMINATION&gt;&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/RELIGION&gt;&lt;/CULTURALFORMATION&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>To the best of your ability, use the list of controlled vocabulary for denominations
                below. If your denomination is not included in this list, use the name best suited
                to your writer. </p><p><ul>
                    <li>Atheist</li>
                    <li> Agnostic</li>
                    <li> Anglican</li>
                    <li> Bahai</li>
                    <li> Baptist</li>
                    <li> Buddhist</li>
                    <li> Christian Scientist</li>
                    <li> Congregationalist</li>
                    <li> Deist</li>
                    <li> Hindu</li>
                    <li> Islamic</li>
                    <li> Jehovah Witness</li>
                    <li> Judaism</li>
                    <li> Methodist</li>
                    <li> Mennonite</li>
                    <li> Mormon</li>
                    <li> Nihilist</li>
                    <li> Plymouth Brethren</li>
                    <li> Presbyterian</li>
                    <li> Puritan</li>
                    <li> Quaker</li>
                    <li> Roman Catholic</li>
                    <li> Scientologist</li>
                    <li> Spritualist</li>
                    <li> Sufi</li>
                    <li> Transcendentalist</li>
                    <li> Unitarian</li>
                    <li> Vodun</li>
                    <li> Zoroastrian</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>Because we use the principle of following the author's own terminology, it is not
                always possible to achieve a standard naming of the same denomination. For example,
                Anglicanism may also appear under the names <q>Church of England</q> or <q>Church of
                    Ireland.</q> When you can, use the <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute to
                standardize these names to <q>Anglican.</q> And avoid using lengthy descriptive
                phrases to describe the denomination; use instead a noun descriptor. N.b. entities
                like the Anglican Church, Roman Cathollic Church, Islam, need to be tagged with an
                    <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> as well as <term keyref="denomination"
                    >DENOMINATION</term>, so that searches will find writers belonging to them,
                along with other data about them. For the purposes of this project, we consider
                Atheism and agnosticism as denominations. Obviously, calling atheism a religious
                denomination is an oxymoron but conceptually, we have linked these together.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What should I do if I don't know the specific religion of my writer
                and all I know is that she was Christian?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> When nothing more
                specific is known, include Christian as a denomination (<term keyref="org-name"
                    >ORGNAME</term> Christianity). But bear in mind that baptism or marriage in a
                parish church in England is presumptive evidence of at least tenuous Anglicanism. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Is <q>Jewish</q> a <term keyref="denomination">DENOMINATION</term>?
                    <term keyref="race">RACE</term>? <term keyref="ethnicity"
                    >ETHNICITY</term>?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> Can be tagged as any of these, depending
                on data. If DENOMINATION, the REG form is Judaism. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
