<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="education">
    <glossterm>EDUCATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>EDUCATION is one of the 16 major, <term
                    keyref="div1">DIV1</term> elements defined as integral to mapping a woman's life
                in the <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries. <term
                    keyref="education">EDUCATION</term> contains all information about a person's
                educational experience. Particular emphasis is placed on where and when she went to
                school (content tagging here will provide important links between different women
                writers who had the same teacher or went to the same school), gender issues (the
                conditions affecting women's access to education), and subjects studied (making
                connections between a subject studied by the writer and topics of her writing). In
                most instances this element will directly follow the <term keyref="family"
                    >FAMILY</term> element capturing information about the subject’s parents, and
                education from primary to post-secondary will be included in the same element. But
                it can be used repeatedly in one entry to reflect chronology or to apply different
                attribute values - when, for example, the subject attended university later in life.
                This tag has content sub-elements: <term keyref="award">AWARD</term>, <term
                    keyref="companion">COMPANION</term>, <term keyref="contested-behaviour"
                    >CONTESTEDBEHAVIOUR</term>, <term keyref="degree">DEGREE</term>, <term
                    keyref="instructor">INSTRUCTOR</term>, <term keyref="school">SCHOOL</term>,
                    <term keyref="subject">SUBJECT</term>, <term keyref="text">TEXT</term>. It has
                an optional attribute, <term keyref="mode">MODE</term>, used to register whether the
                education took place at home, in an institution or self-driven. Though optional,
                this attribute should be used whenever you know what value to fill in. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;EDUCATION
                MODE=&quot;institutional&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;HEADING&gt;Lady Margaret
                Hall&lt;/HEADING&gt;
                &lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1886&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;GB began studies
                at &lt;SCHOOL INSTITUTIONLEVEL=&quot;post-secondary&quot;
                STUDENTBODY=&quot;singleSex&quot;&gt;Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford
                University&lt;/SCHOOL&gt;.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Her
                experience at Oxford was shaped by the strict segregation of the sexes that she
                experienced there. One of her history instructors had a separate table on the
                platform for his women students which meant that they were sitting with their backs
                to
                him&lt;P&gt;.&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/EDUCATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;EDUCATION
                MODE=&quot;institutional&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;HEADING&gt;Early
                Education&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;While growing up in Manchester,
                IB attended both &lt;SCHOOL INSTITUTION=&quot;daySchool&quot;
                INSTITUTIONLEVEL=&quot;primary&quot; STUDENTBODY=&quot;singleSex&quot;&gt;Miss
                Hannah Spray&apos;s Ladies&apos; Day School&lt;/SCHOOL&gt; at Dale Street and
                &lt;SCHOOL&gt;Green Street
                School&lt;/SCHOOL&gt;.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/EDUCATION&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Remember to use the <term keyref="mode">MODE</term> attribute, inserting multiple
                education elements if necessary in order to use the appropriate attribute. Some
                    <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>s welcome (e.g. entering and
                graduating from university) but be selective with them.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What if I have a writer who was educated in her home by her brother
                but then went on to study at a boarding school?</p><p><b>Problem:</b> The Mode
                attribute to capture either domestic and institutional education is attached to the
                Div1 element and only one can be selected.</p><p><b>Answer:</b>Include two
                successive <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> elements -- one for her domestic
                education and another for her education at boarding school.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> How do you tag a school that she taught at?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> Put
                it under Occupation. This why it needs an <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> tag
                as well as a <term keyref="school">SCHOOL</term> tag.</p><p> </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
