<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="emph">
    <glossterm>EMPH</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Short for emphasis, EMPH signifies
                emphasis placed by writer of entry (use very sparingly) or which is part of source
                quoted. In the latter case it may represent italic or bold or small caps in source.
                It is available throughout the textbase from the Div1 level down everywhere that
                typing is allowed (<term keyref="heading">HEADING</term>s, <term
                    keyref="chron-prose">CHRONPROSE</term>, <term keyref="short-prose"
                    >SHORTPROSE</term>), and surrounds only those words that should be set apart
                typographically from surrounding text. When transcribing <term keyref="quote"
                    >QUOTE</term>s from texts (mostly early ones) which over-use emphatic
                typography, you may choose not to reproduce it (with a <term keyref="scholar-note"
                    >SCHOLARNOTE</term> to that effect). This tag has no required sub-elements or
                unique attributes.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>Eliza Fenwick, who had recently decided &lt;EMPH&gt;not&lt;/EMPH&gt; to join
                her daughter in Barbados, embarked with her son on the two-month voyage there. In
                the following example emphasis is marked as coming from the original source, a
                letter from Mary Taylor to Charlotte Brontë: &lt;QUOTE&gt;You talk of women working.
                And this first duty, this necessity you seem to think that
                &lt;EMPH&gt;some&lt;/EMPH&gt; women may indulge in -- if they give up marriage and
                don&apos;t make themselves too disagreeable to the other sex. You are a coward and a
                traitor. A woman who works is by that alone better than one who does
                not.&lt;/QUOTE&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>EMPH will likely be used very rarely in project documents. Designed for the TEI, emph
                is best used by projects recording pre-existing texts where words have been
                emphasized by typography but the encoder has no indication of why the words have
                been set off. If you are considering using the emph element, please consult the
                glossary for the <term keyref="foreign">FOREIGN</term>, <term keyref="r">R</term>s,
                    <term keyref="so-called">SOCALLED</term>, and <term keyref="title">TITLE</term>
                elements to ensure that your purposes are not better served by one of these
                elements.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
