<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="foreign">
    <glossterm>FOREIGN</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The FOREIGN element, available everywhere
                in the textbase from the <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> level on down where typing
                is allowed (i.e. <term keyref="heading">HEADING</term>, <term keyref="chron-prose"
                    >CHRONPROSE</term>, <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>). It identifies
                and encloses a word or phrase as belonging to some language other than that of the
                surrounding text. It has two unique attributes, <term keyref="lang">LANG</term>
                (i.e. language), where the language of the word or phrase marked can be typed, and
                    <term keyref="reg">REG</term>, where a translation of the foreign phrase can be
                provided if necessary and possible. Foreign has no required sub-elements. It is
                permissible but unusual for other globally available elements (i.e. <term
                    keyref="name">NAME</term> or <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term>) to appear
                within it.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>AD received high praise from Berlioz. He is cited as having said of her,
                &lt;FOREIGN LANG=&quot;French&quot;&gt;Si elle ne s&apos;approchait pas, c&apos;est
                le piano qui marcherait vers elle,&lt;/FOREIGN&gt; and &lt;FOREIGN
                LANG=&quot;French&quot;&gt;c&apos;est plus qu&apos;une musicienne, c&apos;est la
                mélodie.&lt;/FOREIGN&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;FOREIGN LANG=&quot;French&quot;
                REG=&quot;pilot&apos;s licence&quot;&gt;brevet de pilote
                d&apos;aeroplane&lt;/FOREIGN&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;FOREIGN
                LANG=&quot;Gaelic&quot; REG=&quot;House of Sorrow&quot;&gt;Broin
                Bearg&lt;/FOREIGN&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;FOREIGN REG=&quot;Silent
                Ones&quot;&gt;Ekumeku&lt;FOREIGN/&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>If using the FOREIGN tag in addition to a title tag for the names of books, films
                etc., only give a translation when the English title is known--in other words, don't
                guess at a translation; if you don't know, or the book has not been translated or
                the film subtitled or dubbed. In those cases just leave the Reg attribute
                empty.</p><p>Do not use the Foreign tag around the names of political/parliamentary
                bodies and groups: e.g. Sinn Fein, Cumann na mBan, Nazi party.</p>
            <p> Do not use a Foreign element for foreign expressions that have entered common
                English usage such as, chic, en route, debutante, and panache. Other foreign words,
                such as Luftwaffe, Blitzkrieg, Krystalnacht, and Sinn Fein, will be recognizable in
                English but not part of English idiom. Tag these words with the foreign element but
                do not provide translations for them. If you are having trouble distinguishing
                between words that have become idiomatic and those that have not, ask yourself:
                    <q>if I were putting this word in an academic paper would I need to italicize
                    it?</q> If the answer is yes, then tag it; if the answer is no, then don't tag
                it.</p><p>You do not have to use the <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute to
                provide translations of all foreign expressions. If, however, your source provides a
                translation, you may use the Reg attribute to add this information. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> I have a foreign organization name; do I use the foreign tag or the
                    <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> tag?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Most foreign organizations should be anglicized in your prose and put
                inside the ORGNAME tag. In such cases you may use the reg attribute of ORGNAME to
                preserve the original spelling of the organization.</p><p><codeph>&lt;ORGNAME
                REG=&quot;Universitaet Muenchen&quot;&gt;University of Munich&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph>. Some
                organizations are commonly known in English by their name in their own language (the
                Sorbonne, the Louvre, the Bibliotheque Nationale, La Scala). Use an orgName tag for
                such institutions, but do not anglicise them or use the Reg attribute for
                translation purposes. E.g. <codeph>&lt;ORGNAME&gt;La Scala&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
