<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="friends-associates">
    <glossterm>FRIENDSASSOCIATES</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>FRIENDSASSOCIATES is one of the 16 major
                content elements defined as integral to mapping a woman's life in the <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of her entry. Because of the ability
                of our electronic literary history to make links between people, mapping the
                friendships and personal connections of writers is a very high priority.
                Systematizing the people that a woman writer knew will allow us to make hitherto
                unrecognized connections between writers. This original research will provide users
                with a wealth of information about personal, political, intellectual, and other
                relationships. To the best of your ability, try to include summary statements about
                her friendships and associations, paying particular attention to her connections
                with notable literary and/or historical figures. The title Friendship and Associates
                is meant to reflect the fact that not all of a woman's associates may be friends.
                Therefore you may, within this element, discuss enmities, business relations, or
                associations that are not strictly friendships. It also provides a way to indicate
                that a woman writer had coffee with Samuel Johnson on one notable day, but that they
                weren't necessarily friends. Discussions of friendships or relationships that
                impinged upon the woman's sense of her own sexuality, would be best captured within
                either Sexuality or <term keyref="intimate-relationships"
                    >INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term>. Sometimes, however, the same name needs repeating
                in both FRIENDSASSOCIATES and <term keyref="intimate-relationships"
                    >INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term>. Pay attention to chronology: you may need to open
                this element several times for different life-stages. To the best of your ability,
                try to include a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> for initial meetings
                that became central and defining personal friendships. See example below regarding
                Elizabeth Inchbald's lifelong friendship with Sarah Siddons. This element has one
                content sub-element, <term keyref="lives-with">LIVESWITH</term>. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE
                CERTAINTY=&quot;cert&quot;&gt;1776&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;EI met actress
                &lt;NAME&gt;Sarah Siddons&lt;/NAME&gt;, who became a lifelong friend, while both
                were working for &lt;NAME STANDARD=Younger, Joseph&gt;Joseph
                Younger&apos;s&lt;/NAME&gt;
                company.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;Before departing for Quebec, FB attended a farewell party with
                &lt;NAME&gt;Samuel Johnson&lt;/NAME&gt; and other literary friends. &lt;NAME&gt;
                Hannah Moore&lt;/NAME&gt; and &lt;NAME&gt;Anna Seward &lt;/NAME&gt; were among the
                invited
                guests.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Rebecca
                West spent summers in the south of France with various friends, including
                &lt;NAME&gt;John Van Druten&lt;/NAME&gt;,&lt;NAME&gt;Beverly
                Nichols&lt;/NAME&gt;,&lt;NAME&gt;G. B. Stern&lt;/NAME&gt;, &lt;NAME&gt;Pamela
                Frankau&lt;/NAME&gt; and &lt;NAME standard=Frere, Pat (Wallace)&gt;Pat (Wallace)
                Frere&lt;/NAME&gt;. The friendship between Rebecca West and Pamela Frankau was
                ruptured when West published a novel denigrating Pamela&apos;s
                lover&lt;NAME&gt;Humbert Wolfe&lt;/NAME&gt;.&lt;/P&gt; &lt;P&gt;Over her lifetime,
                Rebecca West made countless friends even in her old age. Her friends included
                literary colleagues such as &lt;NAME&gt;Rose Macaulay&lt;/NAME&gt; and
                &lt;NAME&gt;DorothyThompson&lt;/NAME&gt;. Other longtime friends included
                &lt;NAME&gt;Joyce Seligman&lt;/NAME&gt; and her husband &lt;NAME STANDARD=”Seligman,
                Hugh”&gt;Hugh&lt;/NAME&gt;, and &lt;NAME&gt;Ruth Lowinsky &lt;/NAME&gt;. Ruth was
                Rebecca&apos;s closest friend for thirty years, and her death in 1958 was a great
                loss for West.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>All names captured in name tags within a FRIENDSASSOCIATES element are assumed to be
                either friends or associates of the subject of the biography. In the following
                example, tag Mary Hays but not Mary Wollstonecraft. She began a correspondence with
                    <NAME>Mary Hays</NAME> (friend of fellow Jacobin feminist, Mary Wollstonecraft).
                Any significant associations with her publishers are not normally to be included
                under FriendsAssociates. Relations with her publisher are better captured within the
                Writing section of entries, where you can specify whether the relationship was
                predominantly personal or professional. Her friendships and connections with other
                writers should be noted within FRIENDSASSOCIATES. If these relations involved her
                literary influence on the other writer or the writer's literary or artistic
                influence on her, discussion of this should be included in her <term
                    keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Charlotte Smith had a longtime relationship with her publisher. Does
                it go in her Biography section as FRIENDSASSOCIATES?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> This will involve a judgement call concerning the extent of her
                relationship. Because Smith's connection with her publisher was a significant
                personal relationship, capture a mention of it under this element in her <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section, but include the full discussion of
                the relationship within her <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Should friendships with other writers be included under
                FRIENDSASSOCIATES?</p><p> EH was an early correspondent of G. B.Shaw, suggesting to
                him that he should write plays, while he in turn encouraged her writing.</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> This will involve a judgement call. Since the focus of our project is
                writing, we are emphasizing how these relationships affected her writing more than
                her life. In most instances where a direct influence is at issue, discussion of the
                relationship will be captured within her <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term>
                section. Mention her connection with Shaw in FRIENDSASSOCIATES but include
                discussion of their mutual influence in her <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term>
                section.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Should Vera Brittain and Wininfred Holtby's relationship be under
                FRIENDSASSOCIATES or <term keyref="intimate-relationships"
                    >INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term>?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> See <term keyref="intimate-relationships"
                    >INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term>. The short answer is some mention in each. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
