<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="geog">
    <glossterm>GEOG</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>GEOG, a sub-element available within
                    <term keyref="place">PLACE</term> element in every kind of document, captures
                names of places which are nation states or larger conceptual geographical entities.
                It goes around name only, excludes punctuation, and has two attributes, <term
                    keyref="current">CURRENT</term> and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>. The following
                is a list of the types of places that GEOG captures:</p>
            <p><ul>
                    <li>Nation states: Italy, China, Canada</li>
                    <li> Groups of Nation States: Low Countries, Baltic Countries</li>
                    <li> Colonies: French Indo-China, British North America [Note: use Current
                        attribute wherever possible to give present-day name, with REG attribute
                        giving name at the time referred to.]</li>
                    <li> Conceptual Geographical Groupings: Far East</li>
                    <li> Historical Geo-political units: Siam and Ceylon need you to use CURRENT
                        attribute to record these as <q>Thailand</q> and <q>Sri Lanka</q>; use Siam
                        and Ceylon in Reg attribute to ensure obsolete names are searchable.</li>
                </ul>
            </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;GEOG&gt;Afganistan&lt;/GEOG&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;GEOG
                CURRENT=&quot;Sri Lanka&quot;
                REG=”Ceylon”&gt;Ceylon&lt;/GEOG&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;GEOG
                REG=&quot;Switzerland&quot;&gt;Swiss&lt;/&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;GEOG&gt;Ireland&lt;/GEOG&gt;
                &lt;GEOG CURRENT=&quot;Israel&quot;&gt;Holy Land&lt;/GEOG&gt; &lt;GEOG
                REG=&quot;France&quot;&gt;Southern
                France&lt;/GEOG&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;GEOG CURRENT=”Iran”
                REG=”Persia”&gt;Persia&lt;/GEOG&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>See element Place for general practice issues.</p><p> For the purposes of the Orlando
                Project the following areas in the British Isles are considered countries and
                therefore entered as a Geog: England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. Ireland
                is of course also a Geog.</p><p> UK (for United Kingdom) is the preferred term when
                the reference is to the (so far) nation. Avoid using Great Britain or Britain, or
                use them with REG attribute UK.</p><p> For material about the six counties of
                Northern Ireland dated after 1922 use GEOG=Northern Ireland. For dates before that,
                use Current=Ireland Reg=UK for the present nation of Ireland, and Current=Northern
                Ireland for the six counties. whole island, but pay attention to geopolitical change
                in choice of CURRENT attribute value. (But use <q>Irish</q> as Nationality even
                before 1922.)</p><p> Use English spellings for places. For example, regularize
                    <q>Eire</q> to <q>Ireland</q>.</p><p> For reference to places larger than nation
                states, try to identify where your event or process occurred according to today’s
                names. For example, Far East might have China or Indonesia as Current; Low Countries
                might have Belgium; Caribbean might mean Jamaica. If the Caribbean reference is not
                to a single country, still use Geog while we await the Area element.</p><p>
                Regularize the "Continent" when referring, for example, to her travels in Europe, to
                    <q>Europe</q>.</p><p> Regularize the United States, America, U.S., and any other
                term used for the country to <q>USA</q>. You can use whatever is your preferred
                expression in the prose of the element, provided you fill in the Reg attribute to
                "USA". (Note: do not use the quotation marks when filling in the reg
                attribute.</p><p> When you have a place that refers to a historical geo-political
                entity and that entity can not be easily transferred to a current nation state or
                other Geog in the same way that simple changes of names can (i.e., Ceylon becoming
                Sri Lanka but remaining the same geographical unit), then include only the known
                historical term in your prose. If you know the current name (for example, Prussia is
                now part of Germany), then include Germany as CURRENT and Prussia as REG. Feel free
                to include pertinent explanation of the historical term in a research note.</p><p>She
                travelled to <codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;GEOG CURRENT=&quot;Iran&quot;
                    REG=”Persia”&gt;Persia&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph> (the present Iran).
            </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
