<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="geog-heritage">
    <glossterm>GEOGHERITAGE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>GEOGHERITAGE is a subtag within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="cultural-formation"
                        >CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It captures information about powerful early geographical
                influences, or about the geographical origins of a person's family which often
                contributes to an understanding of their racial and ethnic background. It offers a
                way to capture women identified as <q>South-Asian</q>, for example, when no more
                precise national heritage is indicated. It should enclose the word or words that
                best describe(s) the relevant place. It has attributes, <term keyref="forebear"
                    >FOREBEAR</term>, <term keyref="self-defined">SELF-DEFINED</term>, and <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> (which last enables you to enter a more standardized
                description than your prose). See <term keyref="race-and-ethnicity"
                    >RACEANDETHNICITY</term> for a detailed description of the complexities of this
                element.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>SM's parents were&lt;GEOGHERITAGE
                FOREBEAR=&quot;parents&quot;&gt;South-Asian&lt;/GEOGHERITAGE&gt;.
                </codeblock><codeblock>MS was not born in Cornwall and did not live there as an
                adult. But the sense of connection given her by her upbringing there remained strong
                and is reflected in much of her writing.</codeblock><codeblock>ST spent her adult
                life in London but she said she never ceased to think like a New Yorker.
            </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Scottish, Irish and Welsh can qualify as GEOGHERITAGE; so can city allegiances as in
                the example above.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
