<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="health">
    <glossterm>HEALTH</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>HEALTH is one of the 16 major <term
            keyref="div1">DIV1</term> content elements in the <term keyref="biography"
                >BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries defined as integral to mapping a woman's
            life. Within this element, discuss all serious events and issues associated with her
            health, both mental and physical. We are particularly interested in women's health
            issues and this element has an associated attribute value to indicate them. We hope
            to make connections between social, political and historical health issues (for
            example, the gendered nature of mental health) and the personal lives of women
            writers (the experience of a woman writer being incarcerated in a mental
            institution). While we are not interested in listing all health problems a woman
            writer encountered, we are interested in analyzing the effect of her health on her
            life and writing.</p><p>The HEALTH element should be placed in the appropriate
                chronological order within the Biography section. Use multiple HEALTH elements to
                record her health history at the appropriate stage of her biography. You can include
                both general summary statements about her health or just a <term
                    keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>, for example, in the case of major
                illnesses. A single optional attribute, <term keyref="issue">ISSUE</term>,
                distinguishes various aspects of HEALTH through attributes <term keyref="physical"
                    >PHYSICAL</term>, <term keyref="mental">MENTAL</term>, and <term
                        keyref="female-body">FEMALEBODY</term>. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;HEALTH ISSUE=&quot;physical&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;HEADING&gt;Back
                Injury&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;June 1930&lt;/DATE&gt;
                &lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;FB fell heavily onto rocks and injured her
                back.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;HEALTH
                    ISSUE=&quot;femaleBody&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;HEADING&gt;Breast
                    Cancer&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;30 September
                    1811&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;The large lump on FB’s breast was diagnosed
                    (whether accurately or not) as breast
                    cancer.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;After being
                    thought for a while inoperable, she underwent a ground-breaking but excruciating
                    mastectomy.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/HEALTH&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;HEALTH
                        ISSUE=&quot;mental&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATERANGE FROM=”1959”
                        TO=”1962”&gt;At some time between 1959 and
                        1962&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;DM had a nervous breakdown, occasioned by
                        the deaths of her long-time lover, her father, and her
                        mother.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/HEALTH&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Include a discussion of a fatal illness inside a HEALTH element if you have plenty of
                material, but make sure to repeat the illness as the <term keyref="cause"
                    >CAUSE</term> of death inside the <term keyref="death">DEATH</term>
                element.</p><p> Many personal experiences of illness recorded in Orlando relate to
                    the historical and material politics of health. In order to facilitate research on
                    such issues, try to include relevant terminology: breast cancer, anorexia,
                    tuberculosis, epidemic, surgeon. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Is suicide a health issue?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Yes. Include attempted suicides under HEALTH with an ISSUE=Mental
                attribute.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>

