<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="institution">
    <glossterm>INSTITUTION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This optional attribute is found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="school">SCHOOL</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It records the significant differences between types of
                institutions. We are interested in the effect of institutional structures on women's
                lives and hope to capture, for example, how institutional differences between trade
                schools and boarding schools influenced women. Because of the complicated range of
                (especially British) educational institutions, this attribute has ten attribute
                values: <userinput>boarding</userinput>, <userinput>grammar</userinput>,
                    <userinput>private</userinput>, <userinput>state</userinput>,
                    <userinput>dameSchool</userinput>, <userinput>daySchool</userinput>,
                    <userinput>comprehensive</userinput>, <userinput>secondaryModern</userinput>,
                    <userinput>tradeSchool</userinput>, <userinput>prep</userinput>:
                </p><p>Boarding: a boarding school is a school at which the students sleep. Common
                in the fee-paying system, less common in the state or free system, though in some
                areas like the Highlands and Islands of Scotland boarding schools are (or maybe
                were) standard at secondary level because of the far-flung nature of terrain. Often
                weekly boarding (home for weekends) rather than for whole term. You can call them
                boarding schools even if they take some day pupils as well.</p><p>Grammar: Grammar
                schools date back to the middle ages; grammar in title means education in Latin
                (occasionally Greek as well). They were for boys only, though some took a few girls
                almost without noticing. Grammar schools for girls began in the nineteenth century;
                academic education was thought of as a needing single-sex environment. Entrance from
                1944 was by an exam called the "Eleven Plus" from age at which children sat it.
                Grammar schools creamed off the top 10% or so of the population. They gradually died
                out after Comprehensive Schools came in during the 1950s and 1960s. Presently making
                a come-back.</p><p>Private: The broad category private (or fee-paying) includes the
                subcategory of “public schools” which are a particular group of high-status, now
                private schools with a particular history.</p><p>State: Schools provided for out of
                the taxes for free education are called state schools.</p><p>DameSchool: A totally
                informal school run by a woman on her own initiative, usually at a primary level:
                teaching elementary alphabet, etc.</p><p>Day school: a day school applies in
                contexts where boarding schools are common. Attending a day school is different from
                being a day pupil at a boarding school.</p><p>Comprehensive: Brave new idea of
                putting whole ability range in same (therefore typically larger) school. In many
                communities the grammar school and the “secondary modern” were each converted into a
                comprehensive and the teachers had to spend a decade convincing the local residents
                that both were equally good. Prep: a private school (historically single-sex male,
                and boarding) not secondary as in US terminology but primary (typically to the age
                of 13).</p><p>SecondaryModern: These replaced trade or vocational schools when
                another Education Act went through, as the schools for those who failed the 11+
                exam. A well-meant system but children felt rejected. Harrowing tales of those who
                actually made it to university in the end despite having failed the 11+ and attended
                a Secondary Modern.</p><p>TradeSchool: A secondary or post secondary institution
                where students learn a trade.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Remember the attribute. Because it is difficult for people not versed in the British
                system of education to determine the nuanced differences between educational
                institutions, taggers often avoid this tag but lack of use will make this attribute
                useless. Try your best to use it.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
