<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="instructor">
    <glossterm>INSTRUCTOR</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This content sub-element is available
                within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. captures information regarding influential instructors in a person's
                life. Placing tags around instructors will allow us to discover whether a number of
                women writers had the same teacher and whether or not a specific teacher supported
                and encouraged writing in women. We wish to honour teachers who were also writers or
                who had significant effect on literary development, but not to record every name
                given in writer’s memoir about her education. The-element should be placed around
                the <term keyref="name">NAME</term> of the Instructor. If name is unknown,
                occasionally it is acceptable to enclose a description, e.g. <q>an eminent concert
                    pianist.</q></p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;INSTRUCTOR&gt;&lt;NAME STANDARD=&quot;Jones, Molly&quot;&gt;her
                well-educated mother&lt;/NAME&gt;&lt;/INSTRUCTOR&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;INSTRUCTOR&gt;&lt;NAME
                STANDARD=&quot;Poggi, Miss&quot;&gt;Miss
                Poggi&apos;s&lt;/NAME&gt;&lt;/INSTRUCTOR&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>If this section contains an in-line xml example, use <codeph/>, with the same
                instructions as above for codeblock.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What if what I want to say was that she was taught by her brother?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Place an INSTRUCTOR tag around the phrase <q>her brother</q> and standardize the name within a name tag.
            </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
