<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="untitled2">
    <glossterm>ELEMENT/ATTRIBUTE NAME (just as in the ORLANDO XML documents, in allcaps)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS is one of the 16
                    <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> major content elements defined as integral to
                mapping a woman's life in the <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of
                her entry. An intimate relationship is defined, for the purposes of this Project, as
                a relationship that involves any type of intimacy whether that be emotional,
                psychological, material, or sexual. This element seeks to counter the traditional
                assumption that women's only intimate relations happen within the context of
                marriage or heterosexual relations between sexual partners. It understands lifelong
                female friendships, defining psychological connections, non-sexual intimacies, or
                erotically-charged same-sex or opposite-sex relationships as important to a woman's
                life. This element captures information concerning both brief sexual affairs and
                lifelong non-sexual relationships (see attribute <term keyref="erotic">EROTIC</term>
                for distinguishing between the two). This element also seeks to redress the
                historical and ideological silence around women's same-sex relationships; it
                recognizes that biographical information concerning these relationships is often
                impossible to uncover; therefore this element allows us to recognize these relations
                as significant while not assuming, in the absence of biographical proof, that they
                were sexual.</p>
            <p> Place this element (or several repetitions of it if necessary) in the appropriate
                chronological order within the Biography section. Generally you will use this
                element in a <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>, but where possible and
                where sensible use a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> to signify the
                initial meeting or a significant event in the relationship; in this way, the
                importance of the intimate relationships will be represented in the chronology of
                her life. Often, however, you will not be able to date the beginning of the
                relationship. This element has sub-elements of <term keyref="lives-with"
                    >LIVESWITH</term> and <term keyref="sexual-identity">SEXUALIDENTITY</term>, and
                an optional attribute, <term keyref="erotic">EROTIC</term>. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS
                EROTIC=eroticPossibly&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1941&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;
                &lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;LIVESWITH&gt;After leaving her husband, Rose Allatini went to
                live in Sussex with &lt;NAME&gt;Melanie Mills&lt;/NAME&gt;, a writer who published,
                like Allatini, under various pseudonyms.
                &lt;/LIVESWITH&gt;&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt; It is possible that
                theirs was a &lt;SEXUALIDENTITY
                SELF-DEFINED=&quot;selfUnknown&quot;&gt;lesbian&lt;/SEXUALIDENTITY&gt; relationship,
                although nothing definite is
                known.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;&lt;NAME&gt;Mr.
                Wilson&lt;/NAME&gt;, a Canadian hunter whom Isabella Bird met in Hawaii, proposed to
                her, but she rejected his offer. &lt;/P&gt;&lt;P&gt;She later met &lt;NAME&gt;Jim
                Nugent&lt;/NAME&gt;, a mountain guide, when she was travelling in the Rockies, and
                the two became attracted to each other. Fond as she was of him, she rejected him
                when he professed his feelings for her. Jim Nugent was a desperado and had a
                drinking problem, though he also had a compassionate and gentle side according to
                Bird. Six months after Bird returned home, he was shot dead in a fight in the
                mountains.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/INTAMTERELATIONSHIPS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;INTAMTERELATIONSHIPS
                EROTIC=&quot;eroticNo&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;LIVESWITH&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1896
                &lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;EGB met &lt;NAME&gt;Esther Roper&lt;/NAME&gt;, a
                graduate of Victoria University (Manchester) and suffrage campaigner, in Italy.
                &lt;/CHRONPROSE&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;They became
                lifelong companions and lived together in Manchester, doing social and political
                work for
                women.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/LIVESWITH&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/INTAMTERELATIONSHIPS&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>All names tagged within an INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS element will be assumed to the names
                of people with whom she was intimate. In example below from Radcylffe Hall's
                biography, do not tag Ernest Troubridge because it was Una Troubridge and not Hall
                who had the intimate relationship with
                    Ernest.</p><p><codeph>&lt;INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;&lt;NAME&gt;Una
                    Troubridge&lt;/NAME&gt; married Ernest Troubridge, who would become an admiral
                    by the end of World War 1, on 10 October 1908. He was forty-four when they
                    married.
                    &lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS&gt;</codeph></p><p>Generally,
                you will be using <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term> to discuss
                INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS because the beginnings of these relationships are frequently
                undatable in the way that legally or socially sanctioned relationships might be
                (making them unamenable to <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>s). Of
                course, use <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> if you can and if it
                makes sense.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Should Vera Brittain and Winifred Holtby's relationship be under
                    <term keyref="friends-associates">FRIENDSASSOCIATES</term> or
                INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS. While biographers speculate on whether the two
                had a sexual relationship, it is clear that they were emotionally and materially
                intimate. Placing information about their relationship inside a <term
                    keyref="friends-associates">FRIENDSASSOCIATES</term> tag denies the significance
                of central relationships that do not fit into traditional categories of marriage
                and/or lovers. However, to mention Holtby’s name in a list of Brittain’s friends as
                well could be handy for a user beginning her acquaintance with these two from
                scratch.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> What about if she was sexually intimate with a person for a very
                brief period, perhaps only one night, and was never emotionally, personally or
                materially involved?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS is still the place that we gather information
                about her sexual life. If this is the case, check off the <q>eroticYes</q> attribute
                value and describe the brief nature of the encounter in the prose. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
