<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="issue">
    <glossterm>ISSUE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The optional attribute ISSUE denotes the
                specific type of issue described in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="health">HEALTH</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. Its attribute values will allow us to separate health issues
                pertaining to <term keyref="physical">PHYSICAL</term> and <term keyref="mental"
                    >MENTAL</term> health and to specifically <term keyref="female-body"
                    >FEMALEBODY</term> health concerns. We are interested in facilitating research
                into the gendered nature of women's relation to the medical institution, female
                illnesses such as breast cancer, and women's oppression by mental health
                institutions, to name only a few. If you judge that two different issues are
                involved, open two successive HEALTH tags with different attributions.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;HEALTH ISSUE=mental&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Shortly
                after 1953, SP had a breakdown and attempted
                suicide.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/HEALTH&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;HEALTH
                ISSUE=&quot;femalebody&quot;&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1850&lt;/DATE&gt;
                &lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;AAB discovered that she had cancer of the
                uterus.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/HEALTH&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>To the best of your ability, try to include separate <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term>
                elements when you have separate health issues. This will allow you to assign the
                appropriate issue attribute value to the information. But if the health issues
                discussed overlap, then leave the attribute blank.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> The woman writer I am researching suffered from health problems for
                the last years of her life but there is no information about what kind of health
                problems. What attribute do I give this?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> If unknown, leave attribute blank.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> The woman writer I am researching suffered a fall that led to her
                lifelong depression. Is this mental or physical?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Either leave the attribute blank, or open two successive <term keyref="health">HEALTH</term>
                    elements and apply and <term keyref="physical">PHYSICAL</term> to the first and <term keyref="mental"
                        >MENTAL</term> to the second. This will mean
                two scrappy sentences, but lifelong depression sounds worth an attribute and a few
                details. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
