<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="job">
    <glossterm>JOB</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>JOB, a sub-element available within <term
                    keyref="occupation">OCCUPATION</term> and also under <term keyref="member"
                    >MEMBER</term>, within <term keyref="family">FAMILY</term>, is meant to capture
                the types of non-literary employment done by women writers and their families. It
                encloses just a word or phrase describing the job. We are interested in comparing
                the kinds of jobs women did in different historical periods and the kinds of jobs
                family members did. We want to facilitate research, for example, on the influence of
                living in a parsonage on women writers and would therefore like to track women who
                had fathers and mothers who were ministers. The tag has one optional attribute,
                    <term keyref="reg">REG</term>, which allows you to standardize the name of a job
                if you have been unable to do so in your prose. By regularizing, the attribute <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> serves to group jobs: professor, reader (Britspeak),
                lecturer are all <codeph>REG=academic</codeph>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>She was a &lt;JOB&gt;teacher&lt;/JOB&gt;. She worked as a
                &lt;JOB&gt;nurse&lt;/JOB&gt; during WWI.</codeblock><codeblock> She&lt;JOB
                REG=&quot;nurse&quot;&gt;attended to the sick&lt;/JOB&gt; during her years in Vichy.
            </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Tag JOB within <term keyref="occupation">OCCUPATION</term> only if the job belonged
                to the subject of the entry. Tag JOB within <term keyref="member">MEMBER</term> if
                the job belonged to the subject of the MEMBER tag. We will want to generate separate
                lists of jobs done by British Women Writers and jobs done by, for example, their
                mothers or husbands. Be careful with those who hold jobs at British universities,
                especially Cambridge and Oxford. IMG notes that the title of professor used to be
                rare there and is still not general. It cannot be the standard form for anyone who
                teaches at British institutions. Use <q>academic</q> as the <term keyref="reg"
                    >REG</term> job attribute; the prose may read things like <q>lecturer</q> or
                    <q>reader</q> or (at Cambridge or Oxford) <q>fellow and tutor</q> or <q>fellow
                    and lecturer</q>. You may place the JOB element around a one-word noun or round
                a verb or phrase. For example, use <codeph>
                    <q>She was a &lt;JOB&gt;teacher&lt;/JOB&gt;</q> but <q>She &lt;JOB
                        REG=”teacher”&gt;taught&lt;/JOB&gt;.</q></codeph> If available phrasing
                sounds remote from the actual job title, use the <term
                    keyref="current-alternative-term">CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM</term> attribute
                attached to JOB, to enter a correct title for the job. AA worked in <codeph>&lt;JOB
                    CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM=&quot;ceramicist&quot;&gt;ceramics&lt;/JOB&gt; and
                    &lt;JOB CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM=&quot;designer&quot;&gt;design&lt;/JOB&gt; at the
                    &lt;EMPLOYER&gt;&lt;ORGNAME&gt;Chelsea
                    Pottery&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;&lt;/EMPLOYER&gt;</codeph>. (It would be worth tagging
                Chelsea as a <term keyref="place">PLACE</term>, too.) Writing activities are not
                jobs. See more under <term keyref="occupation">OCCUPATION</term>.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What if all I know is where she worked but not what her job was?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Include whatever information is available, tag the employer if known
                and try to phrase the sentence in general terms to capture something of the job. PMS
                began a <codeph>&lt;JOB&gt;career in fashion&lt;/JOB&gt; and worked at
                &lt;EMPLOYER&gt;&lt;ORGNAME&gt;Christian Dior&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;&lt;/EMPLOYER&gt;.</codeph></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
