<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="link-type">
    <glossterm>LINKTYPE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>LINKTYPE is a field in the Bibliography
                Database which indicates where an author’s <term keyref="standard-name"
                    >STANDARDNAME</term> should appear in the final bibliogitem. There are four
                options:</p>
            <p><ul>
                    <li><b>Analytic</b> -- indicates the author of a section of the work being cited
                        (e.g. a short story, poem, journal article, or chapter, introduction or
                        preface of a book).</li>
                    <li>
                        <b>Monographic</b> -- indicates the author of the complete work being
                        cited</li>
                    <li>
                        <b>Series</b> -- indicates the author or editor of the series being
                        cited</li>
                    <li>
                        <b>Subsidiary</b> -- indicates that the Standard Name plays a secondary role
                        within the context of the work being cited (e.g. editor of a collection of
                        essays by a single author: this name will appear after the title of the
                        work). In a volume of essays by Virginia Woolf edited by Germaine Greer, she
                        is the Subsidiary author; in a volume of essays by various others which she
                        collected and edited, she is Monographic.</li>
                </ul></p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Certain bibliogitems can be entered in a number of different ways depending upon the
                section of the work you are citing. Thus, LINKTYPE will be determined by MLA
                practice.</p>
            <p> Spencer, Jane, ed and J. M. S. Tompkins, ed. Introduction. A Simple Story. By
                Elizabeth Inchbald. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1988. In this instance, the
                bibliogitem is the <i>Introduction</i>, so Spencer and Tompkins come first and
                second with Link Type=<q>Analytic</q>; Inchbald comes third with Link
                    Type=<q>Monographic.</q></p>
            <p> Inchbald, Elizabeth. A Simple Story. Ed. Jane Spencer and J. M. S. Tompkins. Oxford:
                Oxford Univesrity Press, 1988. In this instance, the bibliogitem is the 1988 OUP
                edition of Elizabeth Inchbald's <i>A Simple Story</i>, so Inchbald comes first with
                Link Type=<q>Monographic</q> and Spencer and Tompkins follow with Link
                    Type=<q>Subsidiary.</q></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Can I have more than one Link Type per Standard
                    Name?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> No, you can modify the <term keyref="standard-name"
                    >STANDARDNAME</term> by one LINKTYPE only in each biblio entry.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Can I have more than one Link Type per
                    bibliogitem?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> Yes. Depending on the type of work you are
                citing, you will sometimes have to enter a number of different standard names per
                bibliogitem, each with a different LINKTYPE.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
