<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="lives-with">
    <glossterm>LIVESWITH</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Content sub-tag available within <term
                    keyref="intimaterelationships">INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term>, <term
                    keyref="friendsassociates">FRIENDSASSOCIATES</term>, and <term keyref="member"
                    >MEMBER</term> (within <term keyref="family">FAMILY</term>), all in the <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries. It generally encloses at
                least a phrase or statement and a tagged name. Using LIVESWITH denotes the material
                living arrangements of the subject of the biography. It does not assume that the
                person with whom she is living is her sexual partner nor does it assume that sexual
                partners are excluded. Using this sub-element will help to capture the material
                conditions of a woman's writing (e.g. did she have support? Did she have a room of
                her own?) and women's non-traditional living arrangements.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;LIVESWITH&gt;Hope Mirrlees lived with &lt;NAME&gt;Jane
                Harrison&lt;/NAME&gt;.&lt;/LIVESWITH&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;LIVESWITH&gt;When
                Sarah Scott married, &lt;NAME STANDARD=&quot;Montagu, Barbara,, Lady&quot;&gt;Lady
                Barbara&lt;/NAME&gt; moved in with the newlywed couple. The two women lived
                together, sharing Christian beliefs and social concerns, until Lady Barbara
                died.&lt;/LIVESWITH&gt;</codeblock><p>Note that in the above example Lady Barbara's
                name is tagged. Even though it has already been tagged in the rest of the document,
                it is necessary to also tag it here in order to systematically capture who Scott was
                living with.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>To the best of your ability, include the name of the person concerned within the
                livesWith tag. All names tagged within livesWith will be assumed to be the people
                the entry subject lived with.</p><p>Query: ER lived for many years with Olivia
                Wilberforce, who was Virginia Woolf's physician. -- should VW be tagged or not?
                Answer: Place livesWith tag round <q>ER lived . . . Wilberforce,</q> but the rest of
                the sentence outside the tag. That way, both names can be safely tagged.</p>
            <p> Using this sub-element does not denote that the relationship was sexual but
                signifies material living arrangements. A writer could have lived with a person as a
                room-mate or the person could be her-life long companion. Using LIVESWITH within
                    <term keyref="intimate-relationships">INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term> also does not
                denote that the relationship was sexual but suggests that the living arrangements
                were more significant than simple room-mates.</p><p> Do not put the tag only around
                phrases such as <q>with whom she lived</q> but include enough prose to describe the
                living arrangement. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If a woman writer lived with another woman writer, regardless of
                whether they were acquaintances, lovers, or intimate relations, can I use the LIVESWITH tag or is it reserved only for intimate relationships?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Yes. Regardless of whether they were enemies or lovers, if they lived
                together, they get a LIVESWITH element. This element is available within both <term
                    keyref="intimate-relationships">INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term> and <term
                    keyref="friendsassociates">FRIENDSASSOCIATES</term> and (<term keyref="family"
                    >FAMILY</term>) <term keyref="member">MEMBER</term> to allow for a variety of
                living arrangements. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
