<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="location">
    <glossterm>LOCATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Big-bucket tag. Location is one of the 16
                major contents elements used in the <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term>
                section of entries, which are defined as integral to mapping a woman's life. May be
                used several times in the course of an entry to capture places associated with
                different life-stages of the subject, and different relations to place (living,
                travelling, etc.). Only occasionally do you find you must use a paragraph to sum up
                both early and late local associations. One of the strengths of our electronic
                literary history will be its ability to make connections between people and places
                hitherto unknown. Researchers will be able to use our resource to discover who was
                living in a particular place at the same time or to make connections between
                historical events and women writers who were living or travelling in that place at
                the time of the event. For these reasons, this Project emphasizes location and place
                as one of the major focusses of our research. In addition, we emphasize structuring
                information concerning location because this makes it possible to generate maps for
                each writer, tracking her geographical movements over the course of her life. Use
                    <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>s when appropriate for structuring
                entry, but selectively. With no content sub-elements,the tag has a required
                attribute, <term keyref="relation-to">RELATIONTO</term>, which specifies the kind of
                location discussed within the element. Like <term keyref="education"
                    >EDUCATION</term>, this tag must be opened afresh for each attribute value. In
                the case of <term keyref="moved">MOVED</term> and <term keyref="migrated"
                    >MIGRATED</term>, try to tag both the start and finish places. Sometimes it’s
                hard to decide between these two and <term keyref="travelled">TRAVELLED</term> (or
                between <term keyref="lived">LIVED</term> and <term keyref="moved">MOVED</term> or
                between <term keyref="lived">LIVED</term> and <term keyref="visited">VISITED</term>
                - what do you do with a summer place?). We don’t have to record every holiday
                destination in modern entries.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;LOCATION
                RELATIONTO=&quot;moved&quot;&gt;DIV2&lt;&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;June
                1828&lt;/DATE&gt; &lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;Frances Wright left Nashoba for Robert
                Owen&apos;s colony New Harmony, located in
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;REGION&gt;Indiana&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=&quot;USA&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/LOCATION&gt;
                &lt;LOCATION RELATIONTO=Travelled&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;
                &lt;HEADING&gt;Italy&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;RM&apos;s extensive
                travels began with her family&apos;s sojourn
                in&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;GEOG&gt;Italy&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;; after they returned to
                England, she travelled to revisit
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Varazze&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”Italy”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; on several occasions with her mother. In
                1905, RM&apos;s bachelor uncles took Rose and her sister to visit
                place&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Naples&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”Italy”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; and
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Rome&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”Italy”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;. RM was also taken by one of her uncles
                to &lt;PLACE&gt; &lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Venice&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”Italy”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; in 1907.</codeblock><p>Note how the many
                times RM travelled to Italy are included within the same element and provided with a
                general section heading of <q>Italy</q>, but how each must have an empty Geog tag
                attached. (There’s a Venice, California, and a Venice, Florida.)</p>
            <p>In the following example, the word “Italy” need not be tagged where it stands alone.
                Users looking for Italy will find this because of the empty GEOG tags.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>All places tagged within Location elements will be assumed to correspond to places
                where she lived, moved, travelled, etc. These places will be combined with all
                places tagged within <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>s inside a <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section to map the geographical movements of
                a writer during his/her lifetime. If her sister travelled to somewhere different,
                don’t tag the name of that place within Location: it can be tagged, if significant
                enough, in a paragraph on her sister.</p><p> Don’t use <q>Location</q> as a
                paragraph heading, but provide a heading that best describes the discussion, or no
                heading if only a small amount of information is included in the element. For
                example, for the lengthy discussion of RM’s travels in Italy in the example above,
                    <q>Italy</q> is given as the heading.</p><p> You can include multiple travels
                within one element if this makes chronological sense, but in a fairly detailed entry
                don’t include all information concerning her locations inside one Location element,
                but use multiple separate <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> Location elements for
                appropriate stages in her life and to distinguish between kinds of locations. Try to
                prevent your prose from becoming formulaic or repetitious. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If I have the information about the dates and places of all of Vera
                Brittain's various moves and travels, should every event be included in a LOCATION
                element for the purposes of mapping her life?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> No. Use your judgement in determining what were the significant moves
                and travels. You may wish to include those as <term keyref="chron-struct"
                    >CHRONSTRUCT</term>s, but add prose providing a summary statement concerning her
                other moves.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Where do I put the chronological event of Vera Brittain moving in
                with Winifred Holtby? <term keyref="intimate-relationships"
                    >INTIMATERELATIONSHIPS</term>? LOCATION?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Decisions about which element would best capture the information will
                always involve a judgement call. In this instance, you may want to record the move
                in a LOCATION element. The document will discuss her relationship with Holtby more
                fully elsewhere, and you could divide the information between both places. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
