<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="married">
    <glossterm>MARRIED</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The <term keyref="married">MARRIED</term>
                element within <term keyref="person-name">PERSONNAME</term> (in the <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries) captures the surname
                that a woman adopted in marriage. It occupies a <term keyref="data-item"
                    >DATAITEM</term> tag and encloses the name only. It has attributes of <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> (to use in the case of variant spellings) and <term
                    keyref="wrote-or-published-as">WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS</term>. We are interested in
                tracking to what extent women adopted their married names for publishing; therefore,
                remember to apply the attribute if they did publish under their married name. Unless
                research proves to the contrary, do not assume that twentieth-century women adopted
                their husband's surname on marriage. Be aware that Scotswomen or heiresses (last
                bearers of their family name) usually or often did not take their husbands' names
                legally, though they might socially. In other words, do not make assumptions about
                married names. However, Orlando has sometimes tagged her husband’s name as the
                MARRIED name of a writer without positive evidence that she did in fact use his
                name.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;DATAITEM&gt; &lt;MARRIED
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot;&gt;Woolf&lt;/MARRIED&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;MARRIED&gt;Fraser&lt;/MARRIED&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;MARRIED
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot;&gt;Houstoun&lt;/MARRIED&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>See PERSONNAME for general name practices. Only the surname appears within the
                element. If the woman writer did not publish under her married name, then you may
                leave that attribute unfilled. If she did publish under a married name under a form
                like <q>Mrs Humphry Ward</q>, then you will need to put her full name in the <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute. See the examples below in troubleshooting for
                further clarification.</p><p> Do not include the last name of a husband as a married
                name for contemporary women writers unless it is known that she used the married
                name.</p><p> Place multiple married names in separate <term keyref="data-item"
                    >DATAITEM</term>s. Enter the names in the order in which she was married.</p><p>
                If she used <q>Mrs</q> when she published under her married name, include <q>Mrs</q>
                in this element: <codeph>&lt;MARRIED
                    WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot; REG= &quot;Abdy,
                    Mrs&quot;&gt;Abdy&lt;/MARRIED&gt;</codeph></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If Mary Augusta Humphry Ward published as <q>Mrs Humphry Ward</q>,
                how do I enter her married name to convey the proper published name?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Mrs Humphry Ward would appear as Ward, Mrs Humphry in the <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute on married name. Ward would be the name which
                appears in the married element itself.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Annie Louisa Walker published as both <q>Mrs Harry Coghill</q> and
                    <q>Mrs Henry Coghill</q>. How would I enter this?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Include two separate married name elements and check off
                    <q>WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=Yes</q> for both. Make sure you have the proper form of
                those names recorded in the <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attributes.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
