<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="marriage">
    <glossterm>MARRIAGE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The MARRIAGE sub-element (within <term
                    keyref="member">MEMBER</term> within <term keyref="family">FAMILY</term> in the
                    <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries) is used to capture
                the event of a person's wedding ceremony or basic facts about her marriage. It has
                its own <term keyref="div2">DIV2</term> and <term keyref="chron-struct"
                    >CHRONSTRUCT</term> if needed. Tag the spouse’s name and no other within the
                tag. Marriage is often a central and defining moment in a woman writer's life and we
                want to systematize this event. Because of the institutional definition of marriage,
                we want to separate out the legal act of marriage from the details of married life.
                For this reason, do not use this element for a detailed discussion of her married
                life but place such discussions within the general FAMILY/MEMBER=Husband element.
                Within Marriage tag, specify place and date (with CHRONSTRUCT) of ceremony if
                possible. We try (but don’t always succeed) to use this tag for the event of
                marriage with subsequent changes, rather than for decades of married life.
                Successive marriages and spouses may occupy separate DIV2s, or occasionally the same
                one if little detail is available.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;FAMILY&gt;&lt;MEMBER
                RELATION=&quot;husband&quot;&gt;&lt;MARRIAGE&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1917&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;NAME
                STANDARD=”Whipple, Dorothy”&gt;Dorothy Stirrup&lt;/NAME&gt; married
                &lt;NAME&gt;Alfred Henry Whipple&lt;/NAME&gt;.
                &lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/MARRIAGE&gt;&lt;/MEMBER&gt;&lt;/FAMILY&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>In almost all cases, enter a marriage ceremony as a chronology event in the subject’s
                life.</p><p> Use the marriage sub-element only when you are inside a member element
                and have specified the relation as husband, spouse or wife.</p><p> If you do not
                know the date of marriage but know your subject was married, include a marriage
                element with a general prose sentence such as <q>Dorothy Stirrup was married to
                    Alfred Henry Whipple.</q> (N.b. watch for the fact that historically, women’s
                names have changed on marriage. <q>Virginia Woolf married Leonard Woolf</q> does not
                sound right.)</p><p> Do not discuss a separation or divorce inside the MARRIAGE tag
                unless the flow of your document makes it necessary to include both the marriage and
                divorce in one sentence. In most instances, the marriage sub-element will be closed
                and the divorce or separation will be included within a general member
                relation=husband, spouse or wife. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
