<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="member">
    <glossterm>MEMBER</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>MEMBER is a significant sub-element
                within <term keyref="family">FAMILY</term> (in the <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries), enclosing its own <term keyref="div2"
                    >DIV2</term> and other structural tags. It has a required attribute, <term
                    keyref="relation">RELATION</term>, and sub-elements <term keyref="marriage"
                    >MARRIAGE</term>, <term keyref="job">JOB</term>, and <term
                    keyref="significant-activity">SIGNIFICANTACTIVITY</term>. It captures a
                discussion of a specific family member (who was important/significant to the
                writer). For general discussions of family life, do not open a MEMBER sub-element
                but remain within FAMILY. MEMBER allows us to structure information concerning
                particular family relations. For example, by including a MEMBER element for the
                mother of a British woman writer, we will be able to generate a list for our end
                users of all the jobs of or all the comments on these mothers. We hope to make
                interesting connections between women writers’ relationships to particular family
                members (for example, group information concerning the relationship of
                eighteenth-century women writers to their aunts) but in order to do so we must
                systematize the discussions of these specific members. One member tag will do for
                several brothers or several sisters or children if not much very is said; more
                detail requires an individual tag. Remember availability of JOB tag here, and
                SIGNIFICANTACTIVITY with emphasis on <q>significant</q>. In order to maintain the
                chronological order of your document, it may sometimes contain multiple MEMBER
                elements for the same person, such as husband or mother.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;FAMILY&gt;&lt;MEMBER
                RELATION=&quot;daughter&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;One of
                Frances Trollope&apos;s daughters, &lt;NAME&gt;Cecilia Trollope&lt;/NAME&gt;, also
                &lt;SIGNIFICANTACTIVITY REG=”writer”&gt;wrote&lt;/SIGNIFICANTACTIVITY&gt;, and was
                one of the three children who died of
                tuberculosis.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/MEMBER&gt;&lt;/FAMILY&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;MEMBER RELATION=&quot;mother&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;
                AU&apos;s mother, &lt;NAME&gt;Hannah (Dickens) Taylor&lt;/NAME&gt;, was an &lt;JOB
                REG=”servant”&gt;ex-lady&apos;s-maid&lt;/JOB&gt;&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/MEMBER&gt;
                </codeblock><p>In the above examples, it is assumed that the names. <term
                    keyref="job">JOB</term>, and significant activity tagged apply to the member of
                the subject’s family.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>A name captured within a MEMBER element will be assumed to be the name of the
                relation specified in the attribute. Therefore, only tag the names of the member and
                leave other names mentioned (for instance, that of a woman writer who was close to
                the subject’s mother) untagged.</p><p>Do not necessarily include everything you
                know about one particular member, for example, her father, inside one MEMBER
                element. Consider the order of your document, and include the MEMBER=Father element
                more than once, for example, if you discuss her shifting relationship with her
                father at various times over the course of her life. On the other hand if little is
                known, entries sometimes include a parent’s death-date in their single MEMBER tag
                early in the document. When the relation specified is Husband or Wife, use the <term
                    keyref="marriage">MARRIAGE</term> element to capture information about the
                wedding ceremony. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
