<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="mode">
    <glossterm>MODE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This optional attribute is attached to <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. records the Mode of learning and allows us to distinguish between a
                domestic or an institutional or an autodidactic education through its values:
                    <userinput>Domestic</userinput>, <userinput>Institutional</userinput>, or
                    <userinput>Self-taught</userinput>. The <userinput>Domestic</userinput> mode
                includes all home schooling, whether by a mother, brother, or goveness.
                    <userinput>Self-taught</userinput> covers all forms of independent study.
                Education in any kind of school ranks as <userinput>Institutional</userinput>. This
                attribute allows us to trace the historical developments in women's access to
                education, for example, the informal domestic education of women writers in the
                early periods versus the founding of girls’ schools and eventually women's entrance
                to post-secondary education. The <userinput>Self-taught</userinput> value
                illuminates the place of self-help in women’s intellectual aspirations. A single
                educational career may make use of all three values in turn;
                    <userinput>Self-Taught</userinput> and Institution apply to a good deal of
                learning in adulthood as well as childhood. Open a new EDUCATION tag for each
                attribute value you need.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;EDUCATION
                MODE=&quot;institutional&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;AA was
                educated at Harrow School of Art and (after doing some teaching) Hornsey Art
                College,
                London.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/EDUCATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;EDUCATION MODE=&quot;domestic&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;GA
                was educated chiefly by her
                mother.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/EDUCATION&gt; </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Separate <term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term> elements should be used to record
                the different modes. If she taught herself Greek during the course of an otherwise
                institutional education, open up a new <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> EDUCATION
                element to include a <userinput>Self-taught</userinput> attribute value.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If she had a governess, what mode of education is this?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> <userinput>Domestic</userinput>.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
