<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="name">
    <glossterm>NAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>NAME is a global element, available
                wherever typing is valid, i.e. in <term keyref="chron-prose">CHRONPROSE</term> and
                    <codeph>&lt;P&gt;</codeph>. It is used to track people across our history of
                women's writing. If the prose in the tag equals the <term keyref="standard"
                    >STANDARD</term> name reversed (Jane Austen) don’t fill in the Standard
                attribute. Any other form (Miss Austen) needs this attribute. We have tried to use
                as Standard form the one preferred by the subject of the entry or by her
                contemporaries. Nevertheless Standard has sometimes to be a cumbersome peerage title
                (Byron, George Gordon,,, sixth Baron). N.b. triple comma there. Standard attribute
                must always be filled in for names within <term keyref="chron-prose"
                    >CHRONPROSE</term>s (for timeline search results) but can elsewhere be used
                selectively, one to a <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term> or
                    <codeph>&lt;P&gt;</codeph>. The tag should contain only the name of a person and
                should exclude any extraneous information or punctuation (Dr, Mrs, etc.). Don’t
                repeatedly tag the name of the subject of an entry: once per <term keyref="div2"
                    >DIV2</term> is generally the maximum needed; repeat the tag only if the tag
                context changes. The contents of the NAME element will not only be used to link and
                to index people but to draw attention to the relationships among people, based on
                the appearance of names in bio-critical documents, in chronology events, and
                according to proximity searches across the project.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Examples</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;NAME&gt;Virginia
                Woolf&lt;/NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;NAME&gt;Sarah
                Ferguson&lt;/NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;NAME&gt;Sarah Flower
                Adams&lt;/NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;NAME STANDARD=&quot;Louis XVI,, King of
                France&quot;&gt;Louis XVI&lt;/NAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;NAME
                STANDARD=&quot;Brougham, Henry Peter,,, Baron&quot;&gt;Lord
                Brougham&lt;/NAME&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>In order to systematize names across the project, it is important that a person's
                name always be expressed in a standard fashion. To find a person's standard name
                please consult the following sources (listed in order of authority). If you cannot
                find the name in one of these sources or if there is some conflict surrounding the
                standard name, please consult senior team members.</p><p>i. <ul>
                    <li>CWRC catalogue/Orlando name authority list ii. FC: for women writers:
                        (Standard names are written in bold in the FC)</li>
                    <li> iii. Drabble or ODNB: for male writers</li>
                    <li> iv. ODNB: for Brit non-writers (except for those with peerage title)</li>
                    <li> v. BLC online</li>
                    <li> vi. LC authority files (author name in the Gate)</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>When and how to standardize a name</u>
            <p>Most names that you enter (those given in the entry in normal reading order of
                Firstname, Lastname) will not require any use of the <term keyref="standard"
                    >STANDARD</term> attribute: writing “Virginia Woolf” automatically indexes
                “Woolf, Virginia”. All other names should be regularized using the tag's <term
                    keyref="standard">STANDARD</term> attribute. The use of commas in standard
                attributes must be precise in order to accommodate complex names. Please use commas
                carefully and accordingly:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>a single comma would place everything that follows it before everything that
                        precedes it in order to establish natural reading order: Caird, Mona = Mona
                        Caird. Grove, Sir George = Sir George Grove</li>
                    <li>a double comma would place everything that follows it at the end of the name
                        in natural reading order and would add a comma to the display:
                        Marie-Antoinette,, Queen of France = Marie-Antoinette, Queen of France</li>
                    <li>a triple comma should appear in combination with a single comma and would
                        defer to the ordering principle of the single comma but would add a comma as
                        punctuation: Carlisle, George William Frederick Howard,,, Seventh Earl of =
                        George William Frederick Howard, Seventh Earl of Carlisle.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Difficult names and how to handle them</u>
            <p>If the name begins with <b>d', de, von, van</b> and other standard prefixes, and if
                the person is not indexed in any of the approved list of sources named above, index
                according to the first capital letter of the surname whether or not it is part of a
                prefix:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Aelders, Etta Palm d'</li>
                    <li> D'Israeli, Isaac</li>
                    <li> Kotezebue, August von</li>
                    <li> La Tourette, Aileen</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p><b>Titles of French people</b> such as comte and marquis should be in lower case:</p><p>
                <ul>
                    <li>Artois, comte d'</li>
                    <li> Condé, prince de</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>Hyphenate all double-barrelled French names:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Marie-Antoinette,, Queen of France</li>
                    <li> Riccoboni, Marie-Jeanne</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p><b>Maiden names, previous names, or future names</b> are very occasionally used as
                part of the standard name; in most cases their appearance in the prose means it’s
                necessary to fill in the <term keyref="standard">STANDARD</term> attribute.</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Susannah Maria (Arne) Cibber (STANDARD=Cibber, Susannah Maria)</li>
                    <li> Rebecca Harding Davis (STANDARD=Davis, Rebecca Harding)</li>
                    <li> Virginia Stephen (STANDARD=Woolf, Virginia)</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>Names that have <b>initials</b> in place of first names should be represented
                with periods and spaces as follows: in text: T. S. Eliot; in Standard attribute:
                Eliot, T. S.</p><p> Non-peerage titles ought not to be part of standard name, though
                sources may use them as such. Use abbreviations if appropriate (Mr, Mrs, Mme, M.,
                Dr, the Rev.) but fill in STANDARD without them. Note that a period follows the
                abbreviation only when the abbreviation ends in a letter different from the letter
                that the word itself ends in.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Monarchs</b> in standard attribute: please note roman numerals and spelling of
                Tsar.</p><p> Note different form for monarchs of England or Britain: </p><p><ul>
                    <li>Henry I, King</li>
                    <li> Henry IV, King</li>
                    <li> Richard II, King</li>
                    <li> Victoria, Queen</li>
                    <li> Elizabeth II, Queen</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p>Of other countries:</p><p>
                <ul>
                    <li>Alexander II,, Tsar of Russia</li>
                    <li> Catherine the Great,, Queen of Russia</li>
                    <li> Louis IX,, King of France</li>
                    <li> Napoleon II,, Emperor of France</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p>The standard name of anyone who becomes or has been a monarch should be their
                monarchic (normally their final) name. Therefore, fill in the Standard attribute for
                a Prince of Wales (e.g. the future George III and Edward VIII, despite the latter’s
                abdication) to the monarchic name.</p>
            <p><b>Popes and other religious titles</b> in standard attribute: please note roman
                numerals:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>John XIII, Pope</li>
                    <li> Pius IV, Pope</li>
                    <li> Mary Agnes, Sister</li>
                    <li> Hanley, Sister</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p><b>Peerage:</b> all people with peerage titles should be indexed by title (not
                surname) in the <term keyref="standard">STANDARD</term> attribute (the ODNB does
                this the opposite way, so beware). Use the final title the person held (normally the
                highest rank they reached) though sources may be using a title they held earlier. If
                you have both name and title, use both but remember to index according to title; the
                surname comes later in the STANDARD form. Occasionally you will find a person so
                well-known by the name they held before they had a peerage title that we have chosen
                that as Standard name (e.g. Horace Walpole). Defer to the list of sources above in
                these matters to determine standard name. Spell out all numbers that have to do with
                peerage titles. Please refer to comma ordering principles listed above.</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley</li>
                    <li> Stanley, Henrietta Maria,,, Lady</li>
                    <li> Grove, Sir George</li>
                    <li> Northbrook, Thomas George Baring,,, first Earl of</li>
                    <li> Cranworth, Robert Monsey Rolfe,,, first Baron</li>
                    <li> Condorcet, Marie-Jean-Antoine-Nicolas Caritat,,, marquis de</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p>Notes: <q>Lady</q> with given name means that what was called her courtesy title came
                from her father’s rank; <q>Lady</q> with surname generally means she got her title
                by marriage (occasionally in recognition of herself). <q>Marquess</q> is the British
                spelling for <q>Marquis</q>; use for all British people with this title.
                    <q>Viscount</q>, <q>Earl</q>, <q>Baron</q>, and <q>Marquess</q> are more precise
                titles than the more general <q>Lord</q> which covers the bunch; if you have the
                more precise title, use it.</p>
            <p><b>When to tag names and when not to:</b> once per tagging environment or per
                chronEvent (look at the editorial guidelines). (For instance, under <term
                    keyref="friends-associates">FRIENDSASSOCIATES</term> and under <term
                    keyref="location">LOCATION</term> as a travelling companion and under <term
                    keyref="health">HEALTH</term> as a physician.) Use the name tag to identify
                critics, biographers, or historians on whose work you draw significantly. For names
                of ships, trains, and the like, use the RS (referring string) element. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Do I need to standardize names that I type in a possessive
                    form?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> You only need to regularize names that appear in a
                non-standard form inside a name element. When you use a possessive name, simply
                leave the 's outside the tag to avoid the need to standardize:
                    “<codeph>&lt;NAME&gt;Virginia Woolf&lt;/NAME></codeph>'s first draft”. Make sure
                that no extraneous punctuation is included in the name tag because this will
                interfere with indexing.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> How do I deal with the names of monarchs to ensure they get
                alphabetized properly?</p><p><b>Answer:</b>See examples above.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Should I tag the Dalai Lama or the Archbishop of Canterbury as
                names?</p><p><b>Answer:</b>No. Find out, if you can, the current holder of each
                position, and use this as Standard.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Can I put more than one name in a name tag?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> No.
            </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
