<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="nametype">
    <glossterm>NAMETYPE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>NAMETYPE is a field in the Bibliography
                Database which functions in a very similar way to <term keyref="author-name-type"
                    >AUTHORNAMETYPE</term> in <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> sections of
                entries: it distinguishes between different kinds of authorship, such as anonymous
                and pseudonymous texts; texts claimed by allusion to other texts; and those authored
                by more than a single hand. The NAMETYPE field in the Bibliography Database differs
                in offering two further options: <userinput>Used</userinput> and
                    <userinput>Doubtful</userinput> (issues which the schema deals with in different
                ways).</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>The NAMETYPE field is used only when a writer publishes under a name other than her
                Standard Name. Select the NAMETYPE which best describes the Name entered in the
                    <q>Published As</q> field.</p><p><ul>
                    <li><b>Anonymous</b> -- indicates texts which appeared with no name on the title
                        page or no name attached to them, or with the generic <q>By A Lady</q></li>
                    <li>Pseudonymous -- indicates texts published or circulated under a fictional or
                        assumed name</li>
                    <li><b>Allusive Authorship</b> -- indicates texts published under a phrase which
                        alludes to other works by that writer -- for example, <q>By the Author of
                            David Simple</q></li>
                    <li><b>Collaborative Authorship</b> -- indicates texts where the title-page
                        lists or other sources supply more than one author name</li>
                    <li><b>Used Name</b> -- indicates texts which appeared under some variation of a
                        writer's name which is different from the Standard Name. Used Names are not
                        pseudonyms because they are not fictional or assumed names; Used Names are
                        required when a writer did not publish under her Standard Name. For example,
                        Mary Augusta Ward (Standard Name) published as Mrs Humphry Ward (Used
                        Name).</li>
                    <li><b>Doubtful</b> -- indicates issues of acription: misattributions, possible
                        misattributions, and texts which were published under a writer's name but
                        may not have been written by her. The Bibliography Database requires that
                        all bibliogitems be entered under a writer's Standard Name in order to group
                        these texts together. Doubtful indicates that a particular text may well
                        have been misattributed to her; however, this text still needs to be entered
                        in the Bibliography Database linked to her Standard Name in order to group
                        it together with other texts by her.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> My BWW published all of her works under her Standard Name. Do I need
                to fill out the NAMETYPE field?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> No. Leave the NAMETYPE field
                at its default, or blank, setting.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
