<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="name-signifier">
    <glossterm>NAMESIGNIFIER</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>NAMESIGNIFIER, an attribute attached to
                the elements <term keyref="nick-name">NICKNAME</term>, <term keyref="pseudonym"
                    >PSEUDONYM</term>, and <term keyref="self-constructed">SELFCONSTRUCTED</term>
                (sub-tags of <term keyref="person-name">PERSONNAME</term> in the Biography section
                of entries), is used to distinguish the way such names derive their significance,
                with values of <q>cryptic</q>, <q>local</q>, and <q>romance</q>, according to
                whether the name signifies a hidden meaning (for instance, a variant or anagram of
                the writer’s own name), a geographical location or association, or reference to the
                romance tradition.</p>
            <p>Use <q>cryptic</q> to designate names that are deliberately obscure. Cryptic names
                mostly have lexical meaning such as <q>A Housewife</q>, <q>A Lover of her Sex</q>,
                or <q>A Placid Reader.</q> It follows that personal names are not usually cryptic,
                with the exception of those borrowed from a fictional character (like <q>Portia</q>,
                or like Henrietta Battier’s calling herself <q>Patt. Pindar</q>, <q>Pat.
                    T.Pindar</q> and similar, with a complex allusion - to the satirist John Wolcot,
                who wrote as <q>Peter Pindar</q>, and to the ancient poet Pindar, whom Wolcot
                referenced). <q>The Author of . . . </q> is not a nickname, has occasionally been
                listed as a pseudonym. (Remember to record this title-page identifier in the <term
                    keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section of the entry under <term
                    keyref="p-authorship">PAUTHORSHIP</term>, using the
                    <userinput>allusive</userinput> value.)</p><p> Use <q>local when the person is
                    known by a geographic connotation, for example "Julian of Norwich</q>, <q>Ann of
                    Swansea</q>. Use <q>romance</q> in cases where a name is associated with writing
                romances, or with romantic writing, for example Stella, Fidelia, Rosa
            Matilda.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>Janet Little wrote as&lt;PSEUDONYM
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;WrotePublishedAsYes&quot;
                NAMESIGNIFIER=&quot;cryptic&quot;&gt;&lt;SOCALLED&gt;The Scotch
                Milkmaid.&lt;/SOCALLED&gt;&lt;/PSEUDONYM&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>Anne
                Grant&lt;NICKNAME WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;WrotePublishedAsYes&quot;
                NAMESIGNIFIER=&quot;Local&quot; &gt;of Laggan&lt;/NICKNAME&gt; Above is a nickname
                of Anne Grant of Laggan.</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PSEUDONYM
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;WrotePublishedAsYes&quot; NAMESIGNIFIER=&quot;romance&quot;
                REG=&quot;Astrea&quot;&gt;Astrea or Astraea&lt;/PSEUDONYM&gt;; this is a pseudonym
                of Aphra Behn.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Remember to use this attribute if any of its three values apply to your name. If not,
                leave blank. Familial nicknames may be cryptic. For example, Sarah Scott was
                referred to within her family as <q>Pea</q> (from the idea that she and her sister
                were like two peas in a pod). There are cases where a personal name can take the
                cryptic attribute. For example, when Henrietta Battier called herself <q>Patt.
                    Pindar</q>, <q>Pat. T.Pindar</q> and similar, it was not that she was pretending
                to be called Pat, but with a double allusion - she was implying she was a spiritual
                sister of the famous satirist John Wolcot, who wrote as <q>Peter Pindar</q> (which
                is in itself an allusion to the ancient poet Pindar). In cases like this, use the
                cryptic attribute but please explain in a scholar's note the nature and meaning of
                the name for future readers. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Rebecca West's husband referred to her romantically and affectionately as <q>Rac.</q> Is this a romance nickname?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> No. Romance applies to a specific type of name used in romance writing.
            </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
