<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="national-heritage">
    <glossterm>NATIONALHERITAGE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-tag is available only within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="cultural-formation"
                        >CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It could also be within might or might not also be within <term
                    keyref="nationality-issue">NATIONALITYISSUE</term> or <term
                    keyref="race-and-ethnicity">RACEANDETHNICITY</term>) to signify a legal
                nationality not held by the subject of the entry but by one or more of her
                ancestors, either immediate or distant (if the family is still aware of this
                heritage). Normally encloses just one word. NationalityHeritage captures information
                about the nationality of a person's family which contributes to an understanding of
                their racial and ethnic background. With value <userinput>Welsh</userinput> it might
                record a writer’s emotional connection with Wales despite birth and lifelong
                residence in England. It gestures towards hyphenated identities such as
                    <q>Japanese-Canadian</q>. While Joy Kogawa's nationality is Canadian, her
                national heritage is Japanese. See RACEANDETHNICITY for a detailed description of
                the complexities of this element. It has optional attributes of <term
                    keyref="current-alternative-term">CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM,</term>
                <term keyref="forebear">FOREBEAR</term>, <term keyref="self-defined"
                    >SELF-DEFINED</term>, and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>. REG allows you to
                represent the national heritage in a more precise or standardised way, whether or
                not you have been able to do so in your prose. FOREBEAR provides a means of
                attributing this heritage to an individual, recognizing an Irish grandmother for
                instance.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>Both of Aguilar&apos;s parents were presumably white and of
                &lt;NATIONALHERRITAGE
                FOREBEAR=&quot;parents&quot;&gt;Spanish&lt;/NATIONALHERRITAGE&gt;- Jewish
                descent.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>In answer to the question of whether or not Irish, Scottish, English, Welsh would
                call for <term keyref="geog-herritage">GEOGHERRITAGE</term> or <term
                    keyref="national-herritage">NATIONALHERRITAGE</term> elements, please feel free
                to use either, according to your material.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
