<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="nationality">
    <glossterm>NATIONALITY</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-tag is used to signify the entry
                subject’s legal nationality and is is available only with <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="cultural-formation"
                        >CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. Within those tags, it also may or may not be within <term
                    keyref="nationality-issue">NATIONALITYISSUE</term>. It normally encloses a
                single word. May be used several times in cases of dual or serial nationality. N.b.
                For the purpose of this tag English, Scottish, Welsh, and Northern Irish can be used
                as alternatives to British as if they were (already!!) actual nationalities. This
                element has optional attributes, <term keyref="current-alternative-term"
                    >CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM</term>, <term keyref="self-defined">SELFDEFINED</term>,
                and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>, which allows you to express the nationality in a
                standard form if it is not easy to do so in prose, or when an obsolete or local term
                (like Hibernian for Irish) has been used in a source.. NATIONALITY might be placed
                not only in NATIONALITY ISSUE but also, if it fits the prose account, within any of
                the other sub-elements available in CULTURALFORMATION: <term keyref="class-issue"
                    >CLASSISSUE</term>, <term keyref="race-and-ethnicity">RACEANDETHNICITY</term>,
                    <term keyref="race-issue">RACEISSUE</term>, <term keyref="geog-herritage"
                    >GEOGHERRITAGE</term>, <term keyref="national-herritage"
                    >NATIONALHERRITAGE</term>, <term keyref="political-affiliation"
                    >POLITICALAFFILIATION</term>, <term keyref="ethnicity">ETHNICITY</term>, <term
                    keyref="religion">RELIGION</term>, <term keyref="gender-issue"
                    >GENDERISSUE</term>, and <term keyref="sexuality">SEXUALITY</term>. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>She was born in&lt;NATIONALITY REG=Welsh&gt;Cardiff&lt;/NATIONALITY&gt;, but
                later moved to Ireland. &lt;NATIONALITY&gt;Irish&lt;/NATIONALITY&gt; by birth, KL
                moved to London in her later life. PJB was a
                &lt;NATIONALITY&gt;Scottish&lt;/NATIONALITY&gt;writer, and her later work reveals a
                Unitarian bent.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Use Irish, NorthernIrish, Scottish, Welsh, English wherever possible in preference to
                British. To the best of your ability, include a British woman writer's specific
                nationality in order to allow us to sub-divide writers into these categories.</p><p>
                Do not use the term <q>British</q> for anyone prior to 1707, which is the date of
                the Union of England and Scotland.</p><p> Use of this element assumes that the
                nationality tagged applies to the subject of the biography. Do NOT use for the
                nationality of her parents or spouse unless it was also her nationality. If it was
                not, then tag her parents’ nationality as <term keyref="national-herritage"
                    >NATIONALHERRITAGE</term>.</p><p> Including a brief CulturalFormation element
                following the Chronstruct giving the date and place of her birth. allows the
                researcher if necessary to rephrase information already given in birth. For example,
                after including <q>Dublin</q> as the place of her birth, the researcher should
                consider including a statement such as <q>Irish by birth, she came from a
                    working-class family.</q>
            </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If she was born in Scotland and then moved to London at the age of
                20, do I put in another nationality element?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> It depends on the context of the writer's life. Certainly note the
                Scottish origins if there is any indication of the author's interest in her Scottish
                identity. If she clearly thought of herself as English even though she was Scottish,
                you might want to tag her Scottish nationality with the attribute
                <term keyref="self-defined">SELFDEFINED</term>=<q>selfNo</q> and her English nationality as SELFDEFINED=<q>selfYes.</q></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
