<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="nickname">
    <glossterm>NICKNAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-element is available within<menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="person-name">PERSONNAME</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It records in a DataStruct any nickname applied to a person by
                others. Nicknames include both casual, familiar family names and professional
                nicknames. The attributes attached to this element allow us to distinguish the
                different types of nicknames. We are particularly interested in honorific or abusive
                nicknames that are gendered, for example <q>Queen of Romance</q> for Barbara
                Cartland.</p>
            <p>We don’t need to record every Elizabeth whose family called her Lizzy or Betty or
                Bess unless the nickname had wide circulation. But Elizabeth Montagu’s family
                calling her Fidget is interesting, and her public nickname (Queen of the Blues) is,
                like Swan of Lichfield, White Rose of Gask, etc., a significant phenomenon in the
                reception of women writers.</p>
            <p>It has attributes: <term keyref="name-connotation">NAMECONNOTATION</term>, <term
                    keyref="name-signifier">NAMESIGNIFIER</term>, <term keyref="name-type"
                    >NAMETYPE</term> (three which variously signify the type of nickname), and <term
                    keyref="wrote-or-published-as">WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS</term>.</p>
            <p>Attribute <term keyref="name-connotation">NAMECONNOTATION</term> on NICKNAME: Carries
                more of <term keyref="response">RESPONSE</term> in it than <term
                    keyref="name-signifier">NAMESIGNIFIER</term>.</p>
            <p>Attribute <term keyref="name-signifier">NAMESIGNIFIER</term> on NICKNAME: Comparable
                to use elsewhere.</p>
            <p>Attribute <term keyref="name-type">NAMETYPE</term> on NICKNAME: <q>Other</q> would
                fit <q>Red Countess</q> nickname cited above, since it stems from politics, not
                family or writing.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;VA was called &lt;NICKNAME
                NAMETYPE=&quot;FAMILIAR&quot;&gt;Molly&lt;/NICKNAME&gt; by her family until her
                mid-twenties.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;NICKNAME
                NAMETYPE=&quot;literary&quot;&gt;Queen of
                Romance&lt;/NICKNAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>CGB was known in England as
                &lt;NICKNAME NAMETYPE=&quot;other&quot;
                NAMECONNOTATION=&quot;abusive&quot;&gt;&quot;the Red Countess.
                &lt;/NICKNAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock> &lt;NICKNAME
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;WrotePublishedAsYes&quot;
                NAMESIGNIFIER=&quot;Local&quot;&gt; of
                Laggan&lt;/NICKNAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;NICKNAME
                NAMECONNOTATION=&quot;abusive&quot; NAMETYPE=&quot;familiar&quot;&gt; Mrs
                Perfection&lt;/NICKNAME&gt;&lt;SCHOLARNOTE&gt;&lt;&gt;In a letter dated 2 August
                1796 to William Godwin, Mary Wollstonecraft referred to EI by this
                name.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SCHOALRNOTE&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>See <term keyref="person-name">PERSONNAME</term> for general name practices. A
                nickname is not a name she chose for herself. To the best of your ability, use the
                attributes to specify the type of nickname. Recording a nickname will often involve
                a description of how s/he acquired it. If you can, include such a description in a
                    <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term> or a <term keyref="scholar-note"
                    >SCHOLARNOTE</term> following the <term keyref="data-struct"
                >DATASTRUCT</term>.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
