<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="numbers">
    <glossterm>NUMBERS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This attribute is found throughout the
                text-base. It numbers up to twenty, and larger round numbers, are to be written
                out in prose: for example, <q>She had two children</q> and not <q>She had 2 children</q>, and
                <q>She received an advance of a thousand pounds</q>, <q>She had more than fifty rejection
                slips.</q> Large, non-round numbers are better in figures: <q>It contains 365 poems, one
                for each day in the year.</q> Numbers over 1,000 should include a comma: 1,000 or
                10,000 or 100,000 or 1,000,000. For amounts of money, you may use prose for e.g.
                <q>five pounds</q>, <q>a thousand US dollars</q>, but insert the entity reference for the
                pound symbol if using figures, in, for example, <q>¥1,250</q>.</p><p>When using Roman numerals,
                use the entire number. For example, if you want to indicate a run of Roman-numbered
                pages from xvi to xviii, you will write it as xvi-xviii, not xvi-iii. Generally, we
                follow the MLA on this issue, and they make the rather obvious point that these
                rules are not always observed when it comes to numbers that specify the year or page
                numbers. When expressing numbers over one hundred, please use the word <q>and</q> to
                conform to British usage. For example, 103 would be expressed as <q>one hundred and
                three.</q></p></div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
