<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="occupation">
    <glossterm>OCCUPATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>One of the 16 big-bucket, <term
                    keyref="div1">DIV1</term>, content tags in the <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries defined as integral to mapping a woman's
                life, OCCUPATION is the element for capturing work both paid and unpaid (with
                sub-tags <term keyref="job">JOB</term> and <term keyref="significant-activity"
                    >SIGNIFICANTACTIVITY</term>, plus <term keyref="employer">EMPLOYER</term> and
                    <term keyref="remuneration">REMUNERATION</term>). We are particularly interested
                in the gendered nature of employment and emphasize the need to include unpaid,
                underpaid, and domestic jobs under occupation. We are also interested in the sexual
                division of labour and hope to track the types of jobs women held and how these jobs
                changed and developed across historical periods.</p>
            <p> Remember the 20 most frequently-used job definitions provide material for the People
                entry point on Orlando’s Homepage for listing entries by OCCUPATION. (Take a look at
                this list in the published text to refresh your memory.)</p>
            <p> This element can be used several times in one <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> section. Where possible it should be placed in chronological
                order according to when she did this work; often OCCUPATION elements will follow
                    <term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term> and <term keyref="family"
                    >FAMILY</term> elements but placement will depend upon the particular life.
                Significant new jobs should be entered as <term keyref="chron-struct"
                    >CHRONSTRUCT</term>s so that her working life will be represented in her
                chronology. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;OCCUPATION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;HEADING&gt;World War
                I&lt;/HEADING&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATERANGE&gt;1916-1919&lt;/DATRANGE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;
                During WWI, CO was a &lt;JOB&gt;nurse&lt;/JOB&gt; for the
                &lt;EMPLOYER&gt;&lt;ORGNAME&gt;British Red Cross
                Society.&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;&lt;/EMPLOYER&gt;&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/OCCUPATION&gt;</codeblock><p>In
                the above example, the first entry of the Occupation element is given a sub-heading
                of WWI (this Occupation tag contains other <term keyref="div2">DIV2</term>
                sub-heading for her various other careers). Often OCCUPATION headings will refer to
                the specific kinds of work she was involved in rather than a general OCCUPATION
                heading.</p><codeblock> &lt;OCCUPATION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;P.
                D. A. Thomas invited his daughter MHR to work as his &lt;JOB
                FAMILYBUSINESS=&quot;FamilyBusinessYes&quot;&gt; personal assistant&lt;/JOB&gt; in
                &lt;DATE&gt;1914&lt;/DATE&gt; at &lt;REMUNERATION&gt;¥1000 per
                year&lt;/REMUNERATION&gt;. She was so successful that by mid-1914 he turned over the
                &lt;ORGNAME&gt;Thomas newspaper&lt;/ORGNAME&gt; interests to her.&lt;/P&gt;
                &lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/OCCUPATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;OCCUPATION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Along
                with her husband, AA became a&lt;JOB&gt; preacher&lt;/JOB&gt; after converting to
                Quakerism In the above example, her preaching is entered under Occupation in order
                to capture preaching as an occupation of women, particularly early women writers.
                However, her conversion and her status as a Quaker are also crucial information to
                our critical history and must be included inside a Religion element inside a
                CulturalFormation element.&lt;/P&gt;
                &lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/OCCUPATION&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Work associated with writing (for example, editing, review writing, playwriting,
                journalism, etc.) does not go under OCCUPATION. Do not include here. We assume that
                for our purposes all British Women Writers were writers first and foremost and all
                information about her career as a writer belongs in her Writing document. Only
                include editing or journalism work, for example, if it clearly was her day job and
                had nothing to do with her own writing. Do Not Include: GA was poetry editor of
                    <i>City Limits</i>.</p><p> All jobs and significant activities tagged inside
                Occupation are assumed to be the activities of the subject of the biography. Do not
                insert an Occupation-Job tag around, for example, her brother's job in the following
                    <q> While her brother was a doctor, her family did not support female doctors,
                    so instead she became a
                <codeph>&lt;JOB&gt;nurse&lt;/JOB&gt;.</codeph></q></p><p> If a person was employed
                by a university, the university is tagged as an <term keyref="employer"
                    >EMPLOYER</term> enclosing an <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term>, all inside
                OCCUPATION. If she went to the university as a student, then the university is
                tagged as a <term keyref="school">SCHOOL</term> enclosing an <term keyref="org-name"
                    >ORGNAME</term>, all inside <term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term>.</p><p> MS
                was a teacher at &lt;EMPLOYER&gt;&lt;ORGNAME&gt;Manchester
                University&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;&lt;/EMPLOYER>. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If a woman writer worked for a pro-choice organization and was paid
                for her work, should this be included under OCCUPATION or POLITICS?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> You will often find yourself making such judgement calls and the
                answer will depend on the context. But if she, herself, was pro-choice then the
                activity should be included under <term keyref="politics">POLITICS</term>. If your
                document flow allows, you may wish to include this information in different ways in
                two elements.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> If a woman writer wrote reviews for magazines, do I include this
                under occupation?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> No. All work associated with her writing career is included in her
                Writing document.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> How would I tag information that Selina Bunbury kept house for her
                brother? Under a family or occupation element?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> OCCUPATION. Since we are interested in tracking women's unpaid
                domestic work, being able to capture this information (housekeeping as a <term
                    keyref="significantactivity">SIGNIFICANTACTIVITY</term>) is worth going out of a
                Family element to insert an OCCUPATION element.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> If a woman writer taught at a school, do I include it under <term
                    keyref="EDUCATION">EDUCATION</term> to put a school tag around the name of the
                school?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> No. If a school was her employer, include under OCCUPATION and tag
                the school as an <term keyref="employer">EMPLOYER</term> and an <term
                    keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term>. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
