<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="org-name">
    <glossterm>ORGNAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The ORGNAME element, a core tag available
                throughout the textbase wherever typing is allowed, is used to identify schools,
                companies, and any other type of recognized organization. It includes the name of
                the organization only, with no comment or punctuation. We aim to avoid duplication
                in naming but have not always succeeded, since organizations can last for
                generations and repeatedly change their names; nor have we been consistent in
                dealing with multiplicity, e.g. organizations that have many local branches. Check
                existing textbase to see if <q>Little Wittering Women’s Institute</q> is given a
                different ORGNAME from <q>Women’s Institute</q> and try to avoid adding to this
                problem. This tag is modified by the attributes <term keyref="reg">REG</term>, <term
                    keyref="standard">STANDARD</term>, and <term keyref="org-type">ORGTYPE</term>.
                    <term keyref="reg">REG</term> is used to indicate the regularized form of the
                organization name at the time contemporary to the reference (for clarification or
                correction); <term keyref="standard">STANDARD</term> is used to indicate the
                standard non-historically specific organization name.</p>
            <p>Attribute <term keyref="reg">REG</term> on ORGNAME: don’t use.</p>
            <p>Attribute <term keyref="standard">STANDARD</term> on ORGNAME. Until now instructions
                say: insert the name in the ORGNAME Authority List; add additional forms of name as
                Form. Example of use of these two: <codeph>&lt;ORGNAME REG=Society for the
                    Encouragement of Arts,, Manufactures and Commerce STANDARD=Royal Society for the
                    Encouragement of Arts,, Manufactures and Commerce&gt; Royal Society of Arts,
                    Manufactures and Commerce&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;.</codeph></p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>If the leading article is part of the ORGNAME (the, a, an) include it in the tag. If
                it is not part of the ORGNAME, place it outside the tag.</p><p>It is project
                practice to place a comma before the <q>and</q> when listing items in a series.
                However, when writing an ORGNAME, use the format as it appears in the original
                source: don't change the comma to conform to project practice. If the same
                organization is referred to multiple ways in our documents (with respect to commas)
                opt for the majority or defer to the project practice. ORGNAMEs that have initials
                should be represented with periods and spaces as follows: A. K. Newman. Do not
                reverse order of such ORGNAMEs in standard attribute as you do for personal
                names.</p><p>If you need to tag a personal name that is part of the ORGNAME, you can
                use an empty tag regularised to the proper name; insert the empty element directly
                after the ORGNAME to which it refers. In general, the <term keyref="reg">REG</term>
                attribute allows you to insert the correct name of an organization when it has not
                otherwise been possible. For example, all adjectival forms of organizations should
                be standardised as proper nouns. This means that all instances of <q>Anglican</q>
                would be standardised as Anglican Church. Catholic or Roman Catholicism would be
                standardised as Roman Catholic Church.</p><p>The REG attribute on ORGNAME is used to
                indicate the regularized form of the organization name at the time contemporary with
                the reference to it; STANDARD is used to indicate the standard or non-historically
                specific organization name. If a value for one or both of these attributes is not
                specified, then the system takes what is given in the text of the tag as the default
                value(s). ORGNAMEs vary over time. Use the REG attribute the indicate the name of
                the organization contemporary to the reference of it in the Orlando document. The
                Standard attribute allows you to standardize an organization's name. In many cases
                the two names will be the same. If they are the same and the text of the tag
                contains this standard ORGNAME, then you will not need to fill in any
                attributes.</p><p>If an ORGNAME is standardly and commonly known as an abbreviation,
                use the abbreviation as the standard and use the full form of the name as in the reg
                attribute: <codeph>&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD=”BBC” REG=”British Broadcasting
                    Corporation”&gt;BBC&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph>or <codeph>&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD=”PEN
                    International” REG=”Society of Poets, Essayists, and Novelists”&gt;PEN
                    &lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph>.</p><p>In complex ORGNAMEs the use of commas in the
                standard attribute must be precise. A single comma would place everything that
                follows it before everything that precedes it, establish a natural reading order as
                in a simple personal name: Austen, Jane = Jane Austen; Friends, Society of = Society
                of Friends. A double comma will place everything that follows it at the end of the
                orgName in natural reading order and will add a comma in displaying the Orgname:.
                Burns,, Lambert and Oates = Burns, Lambert and Oates. Use this form as appropriate.
                If you encounter ORGNAMEs more complex than can be accommodated by single and double
                commas, please consult the triple comma rule under <term keyref="name"
                >NAME</term>.</p><p>Please note: these rules for using commas apply only in the
                    <term keyref="standard">STANDARD</term> and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>
                attributes. To check the STANDARD form of an ORGNAME, check first the Orlando
                Orgname Authority List. If it’s not there, find your new ORGNAME in Whitaker's
                Almanack or The London Encyclopedia. Sally Mitchell's Victorian Britain and the New
                Cambridge Companion to Victorian Literature and Culture are good sources for the
                nineteenth-century period.</p><p>When a geographical place is not part of the
                STANDARD name of an organization, do not include it in the standard attribute as a
                referent but do use a place tag (silent or not) following the ORGNAME tag. You do
                not need to add a place tag if the place has been tagged elsewhere in a CHRONSTRUCT
                or a SHORTPROSE. An exception to this rule: include place in the standard attribute
                of an ORGNAME only when two or more places of identical name but different
                jurisdiction exist in the system: University College,, Sheffield; University
                College,, Dundee; University College,,Cardiff. Research notes should not appear
                inside an ORGNAME tag. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Colleges and Universities</u>
            <p>Do not reverse the order of <q>University of xxx</q> in the standard attribute.
                Correct: University of Leeds. Use Oxford University and Cambridge University as the
                standard name for those institutions. For others consult first the Orlando list, or
                failing that <i>Whitaker's Almanack</i>. The University of Manchester, Victoria
                University of Manchester, and Owens College are different/historically specific ways
                of referring to what is now the University of Manchester. Please standardise all
                instances to the latter, so that the proper rendering is as
                    follows:</p><p><codeph>&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD = University of Manchester&gt;Owens
                    College&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph></p><p>For all colleges of Oxford University,
                Cambridge University and the University of London, please make sure standard
                attribute is filled in to refer to both college and larger university. You can find
                a list of all the colleges of these institutions in <i>Whitaker's
                    Almanack</i>.</p><p><codeph>&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD “St Hilda&apos;s College,,
                    Oxford University”&gt;St Hilda&apos;s College&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Theatres</u>
            <p>London theatres have changed their names a lot. The name Theatre Royal has been
                conferred on at least three theatres in London and plenty elsewhere. Standardised as
                follows:</p><p><codeph>&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD = Theatre Royal,, Covent
                    Garden&gt;Covent Garden&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;.&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD= Theatre Royal,,
                    Drury Lane&gt;Drury Lane&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;.&lt;ORGNAME STANDARD= Theatre Royal,,
                    Haymarket&gt; Haymarket&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;, &lt;ORGNAME STANDARD= Theatre Royal,,
                    Bath&gt; Theatre Royal&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;.</codeph></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Churches</u>
            <p>Standardise all instances of Anglican (including Church of England, Church of
                Ireland, Church of India, Church of South India, and Episcopalian), to Anglican
                Church.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Governments and Parliaments</u>
            <p>For British Parliament, use only <q>parliament</q> with capital <q>P</q>;
                standardised as such only if prose demands lowercase <q>p</q>. Standardise all
                instances of British government to <q>parliament</q> as well but use the more
                specific House of Commons and House of Lords where applicable. For other governments
                and parliaments, use adjectival form for jurisdiction before the word Parliament (or
                equivalent): Irish Parliament, United States Congress. Do not standardise as
                    <q>Parliament, Irish</q>.</p><p>For the Tory Party vs Conservative Party and
                Whig Party vs Liberal Party, do the following: Pre 1830: <codeph>&lt;ORGNAME
                    STANDARD <q>Conservative Party REG</q>
                    <q>Tory Party</q>&gt;</codeph>. This means that today's standard is Conservative
                Party but it was then regularly known as the Tory Party. After 1830, the Standard
                attribute should read <q>Conservative Party</q> and the Reg attribute should read
                    <q>Conservative.</q> Before June 1859, Standard = Liberal Party and Reg = Whig
                Party. The party but it was then standardly known as the Whig Party; after June 1859
                the Standard became Liberal Party, with the REG also = Liberal Party. From 1981 to
                1987 the party’s name was Social Democratic Party; after 1987 it was Liberal
                Democratic Party. Each takes the attribute Standard value of <q>Liberal
                Party</q>.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Publishers</u>
            <p>For publishers whose name is also a person's name, standardise and reg as the name in
                the natural reading order.<codeph> &lt;ORGNAME&gt;Jonathan Cape&lt;/ORGNAME&gt; or
                    &lt;ORGNAME STANDARD= Jonathan Cape reg = Jonathan Cape&gt;Cape
                    &lt;/ORGNAME&gt;</codeph>(It may be a judgement call whether a person or
                individual is meant.) To check the proper name of a publisher, first check to see if
                there is an event on the founding of the company and standardise according to how
                the ORGNAME appears in that event.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Should I tag journal titles as ORGNAMEs?</p><p><b>Answer:</b>
                No.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> Can I use an ORGNAME tag to cover more than one
                    ORGNAME?</p><p><b>Answer:</b> No, they must be tagged separately. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
