<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="other-life-event">
    <glossterm>OTHERLIFEEVENT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>OTHERLIFEEVENT is one of the 16
                big-bucket tags found in the <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of
                entries. It is used for what doesn’t fit elsewhere: often accidents, crime, legal
                issues, imprisonment. A <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> content element that allows
                you to relate unclassifiable biographical events not covered by any of the other
                DIV1 elements, it has no content sub-elements or attributes.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;OTHERLIFEEVENT&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1797&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;MC
                allegedly helped to steal a horse from John Cobbold; after riding the horse to
                London disguised in men’s clothes, she was arrested for theft, and sent for legal
                trial.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/OTHERLIFEEVENT&gt;
            </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Since the category of this element is so weak, try to use vocabulary that will link
                the event to similar ones. (Several words in the example would otherwise be
                redundant.)</p>
            <p> Avoid using this element; if you find yourself using it often, you are probably
                missing other important elements. It has occasionally been used (incorrectly) to
                cover such issues as finances or illnesses (which have other elements, <term
                    keyref="wealth">WEALTH</term> and <term keyref="health">HEALTH</term>,
                specifically addressing those topics). Don’t use it for life events other than those
                related to the entry subject.</p><p> Do not use for non-literary cultural
                activities, such as art exhibits. Include such activities in LeisureAndSociety. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
