<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-anthologization">
    <glossterm>PANTHOLOGIZATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>An element in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="writing">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. PANTHOLOGIZATION should enclose a sentence or more, including a
                title or an editor’s name. It has no mandatory or optional attributes or
                sub-elements, but you may want to include with the anthology title a press (captured
                in <term keyref="orgname">ORGNAME</term>), dates, and other significant writers'
                names. This element creates a record of a work's selection for and appearance in
                anthologies; it contains relevant details surrounding significant instances when a
                text is anthologized (how it's framed; how it's described; how frequently it is
                chosen). Used (not exclusively) for inclusion in important modern or contemporary
                collections (e.g. Gilbert and Gubar, Palgrave, Norton), or for first or significant
                appearance in historical ones. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PANTHOLOGIZATION&gt;Anne Askew&apos;s writing was excerpted in Thomas
                Bentley&apos;s <i>Monument of Matrones</i>,
                1582.&lt;/PANTHOLOGIZATION&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Discussion is also warranted when anthology editors have presented a narrow or
                selective notion of a writer’s oeuvre. <codeph>&lt;PANTHOLOGIZATION&gt;Emily Brontë
                    is presented as a poet longing for death in a 1951
                    anthology.&lt;/PANTHOLOGIZATION&gt;</codeph>
            </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> My author edited anthologies; do I include that here? </p><p> <b>Answer:</b> No. If the
                author herself edited an anthology, record that in genre with a genreName attribute
                for anthology. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
