<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-attitudes">
    <glossterm>PATTITUDES</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>PATTITUDES, an element belonging with the
                    <term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term> material but available anywhere in
                    <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> documents, is better expressed with the
                lengthy phrase: <q>attitudes to gender, writing, gender and writing, or writing as a
                    woman.</q> It captures comment on a writer's beliefs and assumptions about the
                practice and profession of writing and the relationship of gender to it. Her
                attitudes may be surmised from her own specific comments about what writing means to
                her, or from a very general reading of her oeuvre. It captures material less
                goal-oriented than the element <term keyref="p-motives">PMOTIVES</term>, which deals
                with particular reasons for writing. PATTITUDES has no mandatory or optional
                sub-elements or attributes.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PATTITUDES&gt;Elizabeth Grant writes, &lt;QUOTE&gt;the Colonel now calls
                me Madame de Staël and he will forget someday that we are not alone. Dear me what an
                honour it is to belong to such a genius. I will make the children pay more respect
                to me I declare.&lt;/QUOTE&gt;
                &lt;/PATTITUDES&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PATTITUDES&gt;Elizabeth Wolferstan had
                long meant to publish but admits that she could not enter into print without
                feelings of extreme diffidence.&lt;/PATTITUDES&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>When discussing an author's attitudes to her own writing, especially those which do
                not take her gender into account, consider <term keyref="r-self-description"
                    >RSELFDESCRIPTION</term> as complementary or alternative PATTITUDES. For the
                following example, RSELFDESCRIPTION was selected rather than PATTITUDES: <q>JB makes
                fun of her own style as overdecorated and out of date.</q> </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
