<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-copyright">
    <glossterm>PCOPYRIGHT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This element is located in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It captures all information about the nature of the copyright of the
                text and the relationship of the text to copyright. It encloses a phrase or
                sentence, and you may want to (but do not have to) include a title tag as well. It
                has no mandatory or optional sub-elements or attributes.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PCOPYRIGHT&gt;Elizabeth Barrett Browning&apos;s publisher suspended plans
                to publish her 1850 book of poems when another publisher pirated an edition. Because
                there was no copyright agreement between the US and Britain, and because the two
                publishers struck a gentlemen&apos;s agreement, EBB was never
                paid.&lt;/PCOPYRIGHT&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>This element should be used only when there is a specific issue involving the
                copyright of a text or texts. If plagiarism is at issue, please use <term
                    keyref="p-authorship">PAUTHORSHIP</term>. May need to be used in conjunction
                with <term keyref="p-contract">PCONTRACT</term> or another tag to render its
                material searchable from more than one angle.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> My author sued her best friend for plagiarising her novel and
                infringing copyright. Do I use the PCOPYRIGHT tag?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Only if the issue of copyright is prominent in the case. Use <term
                    keyref="r-penalties">RPENALTIES</term> and perhaps <term keyref="p-authorship"
                    >PAUTHORSHIP</term>.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
