<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="person-name">
    <glossterm>PERSONNAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The only big-bucket tag using Datastructs
                instead of prose (which it does not allow), and a reminder that most writers had, or
                have, more than one name in use. PERSONNAME is the first <term keyref="div1"
                    >DIV1</term> content element placed within a <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> section, one of the 16 major elements defined as integral to
                mapping a woman's life. While the <term keyref="name">NAME</term> element indexes
                all standard names, PersonName allows the researcher to provide the details and all
                the variants of one person's name(s). It has the following sub-elements to capture
                specific names: <term keyref="birth-name">BIRTHNAME</term>, <term keyref="given"
                    >GIVEN</term>, <term keyref="surname">SURNAME</term>, <term keyref="indexed"
                    >INDEXED</term>, <term keyref="married">MARRIED</term>, <term keyref="nick-name"
                    >NICKNAME</term>, <term keyref="pseudonym">PSEUDONYM</term>, <term
                    keyref="religious-name">RELIGIOUSNAME</term>, <term keyref="royal">ROYAL</term>,
                    <term keyref="self-titled">SELFTITLED</term>, <term keyref="styled"
                    >STYLED</term>, <term keyref="titled">TITLED</term>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PERSONNAME&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;BIRTHNAME&gt;&lt;GIVEN&gt;Mary&lt;/GIVEN&gt;&lt;SURNAME&gt;Walker
                &lt;/SURNAME&gt;&lt;/BIRTHNAME&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt; &lt;DATAITEM&gt; &lt;MARRIED
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot;&gt;Bailey&lt;/MARRIED&lt;/DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/PERSONNAME&gt;
                &lt;PERSONNAME&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;BIRTHNAME&gt;&lt;GIVEN&gt;Cecil&lt;/GIVEN&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt;&lt;SCHOLARNOTE&gt;&lt;P&gt;Brown
                gives &apos;Cecilia&apos; as her given
                name.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SCHOLARNOTE&gt;&lt;/DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/PERSONNAME&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;PERSONNAME&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;NICKNAME
                NAMETYPE=familiar&gt;Kitty&lt;/NAMETYPE&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;KJ
                received her nickname Kitty from her sister,
                Nancy.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SCHOLARNOTE&gt;&lt;/DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/PERSONNAME&gt;
            </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>All names with the exception of <term keyref="given">GIVEN</term> and <term
                    keyref="surname">SURNAME</term> (both within <term keyref="birth-name"
                    >BIRTHNAME</term>) require separate <term keyref="data-item">DATAITEM</term>s.
                For example, use separate DATAITEMs for her <term keyref="birth-name"
                    >BIRTHNAME</term> and her <term keyref="married">MARRIED</term> name or for any
                names that would not normally go together. There will, however, be instances when
                you want to include more than one element within one DATAITEM. For instance, it is
                logical to use the <term keyref="titled">TITLED</term> tag inside the same DATAITEM
                as <term keyref="married">MARRIED</term> if, in fact, the name and title go together
                as parts of a single
                    identity.</p><p><codeph>&lt;PERSONNAME&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;TITLED
                    WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot; REG=Gregory,
                    Lady&gt;Lady&lt;/TITLED&gt;&lt;MARRIED
                    WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot; REG=Gregory,
                    Lady&gt;Gregory&lt;/MARRIED&gt;
                    &lt;/DATAITEM&gt;&lt;/DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/PERSONNAME&gt;</codeph></p><p>This
                has the advantage of appearing in the doc as <q>Lady Gregory</q>, which is what she
                was called.</p>
            <p> In most instances and where no discussion is required concerning names, one
                <term keyref="data-struct">DATASTRUCT</term> can be used for all PERSONNAME sub-elements.</p><p> Enter all names in
                first name-last name order (Given before Surname). Do not invert the order. (i.e.,
                    <q>Mary Wollstonecraft</q> and not <q>Wollstonecraft, Mary</q>). This applies to
                all names entered in sub-elements inside PERSONNAME.</p><p> List names in the
                chronological order in which she received them. Logic and standard practice dictates
                that <term keyref="birth-name">BIRTHNAME</term> will be entered first.</p><p>For
                discussions about variant spellings, contested information or other discussions of
                scholarly disagreements concerning names, include a scholar's note inside the
                sub-element at issue. For explanation about the origin of a name or other content
                discussions, include material in a <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>
                element (each of which also requires &lt;P&gt;).</p><p> All names must be entered
                within <term keyref="data-item">DATAITEM</term>s. Even if a discussion of the name
                is provided in a Shortprose, include a DATAITEM around the name.</p><p>
                &lt;PERSONNAME&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATAITEM&gt;&lt;NICKNAME
                NAMETYPE=familiar&gt;Kitty&lt;/NICKNAME&gt;&lt;/DATAITEM&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;KJ
                received her nickname Kitty from her sister,
                Nancy.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DATASTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/PERSONNAME&gt;</p><p>
                Do not put PERSONNAME sub-elements inside a universal Name element.</p><p>Use <term
                    keyref="wrote-or-published-as">WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS</term> attribute. All
                personName content sub-elements have an attribute for WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS to be used
                when the writer published under the name within the element. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
