<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-first-literary-activity">
    <glossterm>PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This element is conceptually a part of <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It captures the first significant writing activity, published or
                otherwise, of the subject. It should not be used for publications unless there's
                strong evidence that the publication actually sprang from the actual earliest
                writing activity. This element should contain a full sentence spelling out if
                possible (and tagging) the title of the work, its date of creation of publication,
                and its <term keyref="t-genre">TGENRE</term>. Avoid tagging other dates while still
                within this element, to ensure that the one tagged date refers to the first literary
                activity. This element should occur in a <term keyref="chron-struct"
                    >CHRONSTRUCT</term> if possible; using it will put the <term
                    keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> into <term keyref="mile-stone"
                    >MILESTONE</term> on the <term keyref="over-view">OVERVIEW</term> screen. It has
                no mandatory or optional sub-elements or attributes.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY&gt;Joanna Baillie&apos;s first play, Arnold, is,
                lost.&lt;/PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY&gt; &lt;PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY&gt;Eleanor Ann
                Porden was planning an essay periodical in &lt;DATE&gt;1815&lt;/DATE&gt; when her
                long poem, The Veils or the Triumph of Constancy, written at age 16,
                appeared.&lt;/PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY&gt;The
                future Mary Wortley Montagu seems to have circulated her writings among a group of
                young women including probably Mary Monck. She copied them in two surviving albums,
                from one of which pages were cut out, apparently following a reprimand for
                writing.&lt;/PFIRSTLITERARYACTIVITY&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Fill this in for all writers where known and where appropriate. From the examples,
                you can see that it is not always appropriate to impose a title or date on the
                information; use discretion.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
