<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="untitled2">
    <glossterm>ELEMENT/ATTRIBUTE NAME (just as in the ORLANDO XML documents, in allcaps)</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This term belongs to <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. records the effects of specific people, texts, events, or places
                that formed or developed the writer's thinking or practice as an artist. Influences
                can pertain to her individual texts or her work as a whole. It contains at least a
                full sentence, and usually at least one tagged <term keyref="name">NAME</term> or
                    <term keyref="title">TITLE</term>. It is modified by an attribute, <term
                    keyref="influence-type">INLFUENCETYPE</term>, which has three values:
                    <userinput>literary</userinput>, <userinput>intellectual</userinput>, or
                    <userinput>familial</userinput>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PINFLUENCESHER INFLUENCETYPE=”LITERARY”&gt;Angela Carter&apos;s
                neo-Gothic or magic realist writing is indebted to &lt;NAME&gt;Isak
                Dinesen&lt;/NAME&gt;, &lt;NAME&gt;Djuna Barnes&lt;/NAME&gt;, and &lt;NAME&gt;Jane
                Bowles&lt;/NAME&gt;.&lt;/PINFLUENCESHER&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PINFLUENCESHER
                INFLUENCETYPE=”LITERARY”&gt;Carolina Nairne was greatly influenced by
                &lt;name&gt;Robert
                Burns&lt;/&gt;.&lt;/PINFLUENCESHER&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PINFLUENCESHER
                INFLUENCETYPE=”INTELLECTUAL”&gt;Maud Sulter&apos;s poetry was influenced by her trip
                to the west coast of &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;AREA&gt;Africa&lt;/AREA&gt;, in particular
                &lt;REGION&gt;St James Island&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                CURRENT=”Gambia”&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;, which was used as a shipping post for
                thousands of slaves in the nineteenth century.&lt;/PINFLUENCESHER&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>This element differs from literary schools in that schools are known, named groups or
                organizations that merit discussion in and of themselves. This element does not
                include subscription or patronage, and direct imitation of another author is dealt
                with through <term keyref="t-intertextuality">TINTERTEXTUALITY</term>.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> My author published her book by amassing subscribers. Are these
                people considered influences?<b>Answer:</b>Some of them might be influences and
                merit a mention in PINFLUENCESHER. But publishing by subscription is dealt with by
                use of element <term keyref="p-mode-of-publication">PMODEOFPUBLICATION</term> with
                attribute <term keyref="subscription">SUBSCRIPTION</term>.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Question:</b> If the author was heavily influenced by her time in Paris, should I
                tag it here?</p><p><b>Answer:</b>Yes, and use the place tag as needed.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
