<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="place-name">
    <glossterm>PLACENAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>PLACENAME, a sub-element within <term
                    keyref="place">PLACE</term> (available throughout the textbase) should contain a
                name only, no punctuation or description. It has optional attributes <term
                    keyref="current">CURRENT</term> and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>. It may be
                accompanied by a <term keyref="settlement">SETTLEMENT</term> tag and must have <term
                    keyref="region">REGION</term> and <term keyref="geog">GEOG</term>. It captures
                specific places that are known by their name but are not places in the same way
                geographical or political entities are places. For example, <q>Trafalgar Square</q>
                is generally a PLACENAME. It could also be an <term keyref="address">ADDRESS</term>,
                but you will almost certainly be writing of speeches given there, demonstrations
                held, marches begun. We are chiefly interested in capturing PLACENAMEs for those
                places that are important to women's literary history (i.e., those that are likely
                to come up more than once in Orlando). For example, Sissinghurst, the home of Vita
                Sackville-West, is highly significant and needs a PLACENAME. Homes of other writers,
                even yet another Rose Cottage or the Old Rectory, are also worth tagging.</p><p>The
                following are common types of placenames:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Buildings and Estates: British Museum, Knole, the Louvre</li>
                    <li> Farms and Gardens: Kew Gardens</li>
                    <li> Railway stations, airports: Paddington Station, Heathrow</li>
                    <li> Cemeteries: Paddington Cemetery</li>
                </ul>
            </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>While in Greece, she visited the
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;PLACENAME&gt;Acropolis&lt;/PLACENAME&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT
                REG=”Athens”&gt;&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=&quot;Greece&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;.</codeblock><codeblock>She was
                beheaded on &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;PLACENAME&gt;Tower Hill&lt;/PLACENAME&gt;,
                &lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;London&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;REGION REG=”Middlesex”&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>See PLACE for general practice issues.</p><p> Do NOT use a PLACENAME without also
                including another conceptually larger <term keyref="place">PLACE</term> sub-element.
                This will often entail including a sub-element with only the <term keyref="reg"
                    >REG</term> attribute filled
                    in.</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;PLACENAME&gt;British
                    Museum&lt;/PLACENAME&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT
                    REG=&quot;London&quot;&gt;&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;REGION
                    REG=”Middlesex”&gt;&lt;geog
                    REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph></p>
            <p>Before using PLACENAME, consider whether or not it is useful to tag the name.</p><p>
                The distinction between an <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> and a PLACENAME is
                context-specific. If she was involved with a place as an organization, then tag it
                as such. For example, if she visited a friend, or went sightseeing, at Bedlam or if
                she had a play open at Drury Lane Theatre, tag both as organizations; if in a <term
                    keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>, include empty PLACE element for
                London. In both examples, what took her to the place was its institutional activity,
                not its geographical location. However, if she came up with the idea for her novel
                while sitting on the steps of the British Museum, tag it as a PLACENAME.</p><p>There
                is often an overlap between addresses and PLACENAMEs, particularly with names of
                streets and squares. The distinction between an <term keyref="address"
                    >ADDRESS</term> and a PLACENAME can be defined as the difference between a place
                where someone lived and a place with its own significant history. Orlando has
                free-standing events about the building of architectural landmarks Regent Street,
                London, and Royal Crescent, Bath; both ought to be tagged as Placenames here, but as
                the address of a writer they take an ADDRESS tag. Many entries have the Strand in an
                ADDRESS tag, but when Elizabeth Cellier stands in the pillory there it is a
                Placename.</p><p>Include type designation of PLACENAME in prose if it is normally
                referred to in this way. For example, include Cemetery in the prose for Paddington
                Cemetery; Square in that for Trafalgar Square. Capitalize these designations and all
                others inside PLACENAME.</p><p>Do not tag non-specific PLACENAMEs like "her mother's
                estate" (unless it has a known name, which could go in Reg attribute). Tag only
                PLACENAMEs that might in principle appear on a map. If a PLACENAME begins with an
                article (for example, the Strand), the <term keyref="reg">REG</term> form is
                    <q>Strand</q>. Fill this in if you choose to place the <q>the</q> inside rather
                than outside your tag.</p><p>Do not use PLACENAME to tag lakes, mountains, or
                forests. They are <term keyref="region">REGION</term>s.</p><p>London: To identify
                common PLACENAMEs in London, check <i>The London Encyclopedia</i> if search of the
                published textbase draws a blank.</p><p>The PLACENAME and other PLACE tags work just
                the same in <term keyref="t-setting-place">TSETTINGPLACE</term> (in works of
                fiction), as elsewhere, so long as they are actual places, not imaginary like
                Earthsea or Gilead.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
