<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="place">
    <glossterm>PLACE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>PLACE is a core tag globally available,
                the largest bucket holding together the sub-elements defining location, it must
                enclose every set or nest of more specific tags signifying place: <term
                    keyref="geog">GEOG</term>, <term keyref="region">REGION</term>, <term
                    keyref="settlement">SETTLEMENT</term>, etc., where it structures information
                about geographical location. All content information --- i.e. the names of places --
                should be placed inside its sub-elements. Place does allow free prose which can be
                used for untagged descriptors like <q>near</q> or <q>the tiny village of</q> and to
                enter punctuation.</p><p>Locating events and people is a priority of our Project. By
                indicating where events occurred, we will be able to bring together people and
                places,and to uncover geographical connections between writers as yet
                undiscovered.</p><p>There are two main goals for tagging place: mapping and
                indexing. We hope automatically to provide our users with maps of literary history.
                For example, by using the places tagged with biography documents, we might generate
                a map for each woman writer's life which places her in specific places at specific
                dates. We also hope to allow users to see a map of events for a particular year
                which would bring together geographical information from all Project schemas. In
                order to automate mapping, it is crucial that we provide place information in a
                structured and recognizable way. In addition to mapping, we want to provide a user
                with an index of places, for instance of all women writers who lived in Bloomsbury
                or all events which took place in Bath.</p><p>While we prioritize the tagging of
                place, not all places require tagging. We hope to enhance our geographical
                information by context-specific tagging. For example, by tagging only places where
                events occurred i the material of a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>
                rather than all places mentioned in the prose, we will be able to map that event to
                the place tagged. See Practice Issues below for a discussion of context-specific
                practices.</p>
            <p>PLACE is available within most elements which contain prose. It has the following
                content sub-elements which divide PLACE into smaller units: <term
                    keyref="place-name">PLACENAME</term>, <term keyref="address">ADDRESS</term>,
                SETTLEMENT, <term keyref="region">REGION</term>, and <term keyref="geog"
                >GEOG</term>, with <term keyref="area">AREA</term> hopefully to follow.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Tokyo&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;,
                &lt;GEOG&gt;Japan&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Hanworth&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;, in
                &lt;REGION&gt;Middlesex&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; She died in
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;ADDRESS&gt;&lt;ADDRLINE&gt;George Street&lt;/ADDRLINE&gt;,
                &lt;ADDRLINE&gt;Hanover Square&lt;/ADDRLINE&gt;&lt;/ADDRESS&gt;,
                &lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;London&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;REGION REG=”Middlesex”&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;PLACE&gt;.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Sources: For problem places check Atlases. <i>Webster's Dictionary</i> provides a
                lengthy appendix on Geographical Places which gives useful information and proper
                spelling. For help with determining which region within the British Isles your
                settlement is in, or used historically to be in, googling the settlement generally
                works. Place all punctuation and spaces outside <term keyref="place">PLACE</term>
                sub-elements.</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Casablanca&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;,
                    &lt;GEOG&gt;Morocco&lt;/GEOG&gt;.&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph></p>
            <p>Put the apostrophe and <q>s</q> in possessive words outside the sub-element. For
                example, do not include <q>Italy's</q> within a geog tag but place tag only around
                    <q>Italy</q>.</p><p>
                <codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;GEOG&gt;Italy&lt;/GEOG&gt;&apos;s&lt;/PLACE&gt;. During
                    &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;GEOG&gt;Canada&lt;/GEOG&gt;&apos;s&lt;/PLACE&gt; separation
                    debates, she travelled through the country.</codeph></p>
            <p>Do not include articles (the, a) within the PLACE
                    sub-element.</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;The &lt;REGION&gt;Lake
                    District&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph></p><p>Do not tag all
                places. Use your best judgement on determining relevant places but as a general
                rule, only tag places that are significant to a person's life and writing or an
                historical event. For example, if a woman writer lived in the village of Little
                Wittering, while the place is obscure, tag it as this may allow us to discover that
                another woman writer lived or wrote there or nearby in a different century. But if
                the writer split up with a lover who then went off to live in Little Wittering, or
                if she applied for a job there but didn't get it, do not tag it.</p><p>Do not tag
                places within biography or writing sections that refer to general world events
                rather than the entry subject when these events will be entered elsewhere. In the
                example below, tag Florence because Radclyffe Hall was in Florence during that time
                but do not tag the reference to Italy in the <term keyref="short-prose"
                    >SHORTPROSE</term>, both because the upheavals in Italy before and during WWII
                will be covered in free-standing events AND because the empty tag in the <term
                    keyref="chron-prose">CHRONPROSE</term> will pull this into search results on
                Italy anyhow.</p><p><codeph>&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATRANGE&gt;6 November 1921-7
                    January 1922&lt;/DATERANGE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;RH and Una visited
                    &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Florence&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=&quot;Italy&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;, staying at the Hotel
                    Albion .&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt; They
                    sided with the Fascists in the midst of Italy&apos;s political
                    upheaval.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;</codeph></p><p>Do not tag the same place
                twice within one big-bucket tag unless it makes part of two separate PLACE nests. If
                she lived in London and you have tagged her move to London, subsequent life events
                which take place in London do not require place tags unless they feature an ADDRESS
                or <term keyref="place-name">PLACENAME</term>. However, if she then moved to Bath
                and returned to London, tag London within the <term keyref="moved">MOVED</term>
                attribute.</p><p>All places must have a recognizable location tagged. In order to
                automate mapping, the computer will search from smallest to largest conceptual
                location (ADDRESS or PLACENAME to SETTLEMENT to REGION to GEOG) and map the place
                according to the smallest recognizable place. The smaller conceptual name is not
                recognizable alone (think London, ON, London, Mississippi); you must add a larger
                sub-element, even an empty one with only the Reg attribute filled in (see below).In
                the example below, do NOT simply tag British Museum. You must include empty tags for
                mapping purposes.</p><p>She had the idea for her novel standing on the steps of the
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;PLACENAME&gt;British Museum&lt;/PLACENAME&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT
                REG=&quot;London&quot;&gt;&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;REGION REG=”Middlesex”&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;.</p>
            <p>You must include a REGION sub-element for all places in the British Isles. See region
                glossary entry for a list of regions to use and a list of exceptions to this rule.
                Also for Canada, the US, and Australia.</p><p>You must include a GEOG sub-element
                for all places outside the British Isles. See GEOG glossary entry for a list of
                exceptions to this rule. (The Alps, the Rocky Mountains - if not specified which -
                the Pacific Ocean, etc., do not take a GEOG.)</p><p><codeph>If you do not want to
                    enter necessary place information in the prose of your sentence, use the
                    appropriate PLACE sub-element and provide the information only in the Reg
                    attribute. While in
                    &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Casablanca&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=&quot;Morocco&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;, she met her future
                    husband.</codeph></p>
            <p>You can refer to a PLACE in the prose using whatever word you want, but you must
                regularize a place referred to in a non-standard way. A common example of this
                occurs when adjectives are used instead of proper names and the proper name is given
                inside a REG attribute. <codeph>She met Eleanor Roosevelt during her
                    &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;GEOG REG=&quot;USA&quot;&gt;American&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;
                    lecture tour.</codeph></p><p>A PLACE nest can take only one of each sub-element.
                If you wish to capture that she lived in the Rocky Mountains in Alberta, since both
                Rocky Mountains and Alberta are Regions, open two <term keyref="region"
                    >REGION</term> elements, each with the empty <term keyref="geog"
                >GEOG</term>=Canada.</p><p>If a place has a specific directional marker (i.e.,
                eastern, western, northern, southern), include that marker in the prose but
                regularize without. The South of France is <term keyref="reg">REG</term>=France,
                although South Dakota is REG=South Dakota.</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT
                    REG=&quot;London&quot;&gt;East London&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;region
                    REG=”Middlesex”&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=”England”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph></p><p>When a place
                sub-element is a given a REG or CURRENT attribute, the content of these attributes
                will take priority over the content of the element's prose for mapping and indexing.
                Therefore for e.g. Chelsea you must use REG=Chelsea as well as CURRENT=London, or
                else a search on Chelsea will miss this. Same with St Peterburg/Leningrad and many
                more.</p><p>All places tagged within a <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> Location
                element within Biography will be assumed to refer to a place with which the subject
                entry was closely connected and will be mapped accordingly. Only tag PLACE in a
                    <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> inside a free-standing <term
                    keyref="event">EVENT</term> if it is the place where the chronology event
                occurred, or somewhere crucially affected by it. </p><p>Only tag PLACE in a
                CHRONSTRUCT inside a <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> or <term
                    keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section if it can be used to map where the
                subject of the entry was on the date specified. Do not tag if the PLACE in the
                chronology event refers to where someone else was (for example, <q>Her brother died
                    in London</q>). If an end user wants to see a map of George Eliot's life, all
                places tagged within CHRONSTRUCTs will be assumed to place where Eliot was on a
                certain date and be mapped accordingly. In the below example, the map will locate
                Eliot in Florence in
                    1860.</p><p><codeph>&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1860&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;George
                    Eliot visited &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Florence&lt;/&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=&quot;Italy&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;</codeph></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p>In order to determine whether or not a place should be captured inside a PLACE
                element, ask yourself the following questions:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>If I am inside a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> in a
                        free-standing <term keyref="event">EVENT</term>, is the PLACE I want to tag
                        the place where the chronology event occurred?</li>
                    <li>If I am inside a <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> in an entry,
                        either <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> or <term keyref="writing"
                            >WRITING</term> section, is the PLACE I want to tag the place where the
                        subject was on that date? Or where she published or had a play produced,
                        etc?</li>
                    <li>Is this PLACE likely to come up again Orlando's literary history?
                        Occasionally <q>a tiny village near Sheffield</q> (with PLACE tags on
                        Sheffield) might make more sense than giving the name of the village.</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p><b>Question:</b>Can I use two of the same sub-element within one PLACE tag?</p><p>Answer: No, except <term keyref="addr-line">ADDRLINE</term>.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
