<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-material-conditions">
    <glossterm>PMATERIALCONDITIONS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This tag is found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="writing">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. This tag describes the physical and economic circumstances that
                governed a woman's writing or a particular text. This category is meant to answer
                questions like: did she have a room of her own? Was it the laundry room or a posh
                cabin on the French Riviera? Was she losing her eyesight while writing a particular
                work? Did she hide the manuscript while writing? This element encloses a full
                sentence or clause. It has no mandatory or optional sub-elements, but one optional
                attribute, <term keyref="displacement">DISPLACEMENT</term>, with a value of
                    <userinput>DisplacementYes</userinput>. This might signify migration, or moving
                out of her home because of marital troubles or failure to pay the rent.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PMATERIALCONDITIONS&gt;The preface to Ann Grant&apos;s memoirs explains
                that they were written under &quot;painful
                circumstances.&quot;&lt;/PMATERIALCONDITIONS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>It is still
                not known if Eliza Fenwick&apos;s second novel ever appeared
                &lt;PMATERIALCONDITIONS&gt;or if it was a casualty of stress and
                poverty.&lt;/PMATERIALCONDITIONS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;PMATERIALCONDITIONS&gt;Djuna Barnes wrote her novel while living at Hayford Hall
                under the auspices of Peggy Guggenhiem, who had rented the place. Several other
                writers were living there at the same time. &lt;/PMATERIALCONDITIONS&gt;
            </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>This element differs from the <term keyref="class">CLASS</term> and <term
                    keyref="wealth">WEALTH</term> categories in the <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> section of the entry in that it is specific to the conditions
                under which she wrote.</p><p> The element can be used to discuss emotional or health
                issues that affected the writing, or deadline pressures brought to bear by
                publishers, but these may sometimes be more accurately described using the <term
                    keyref="pmotives">PMOTIVES</term> element. See <term keyref="pmotives"
                    >PMOTIVES</term>. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Does the following example belong in PMATERIALCONDITIONS or in <term
                    keyref="p-motives">PMOTIVES</term>? During the Irish famine, Elizabeth Grant
                    <q>wrote for bread</q> mainly for others.</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> You might consider enclosing the whole sentence in PMOTIVES, while
                also putting a PMATERIALCONDITIONS element round the first four words. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
