<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-mode-of-publication">
    <glossterm>PMODEOFPUBLICATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>PMODEOFPUBLICATION is connected to <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="writing">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It deals with specific ways in which a book is brought to print; it
                does not address issues of circulation. It captures specific issues around the
                publisher (or details about the printer where pertinent and different from the
                publisher) through capturing particulars of specified types of publishing. It
                encloses full sentences, with enough information to convey the issues at stake. The
                attribute values on this tag cover limited, pirated, or private editions, publishing
                by subscription, and self-publishing. Other publishing issues call for other tags:
                    <term keyref="p-type-of-press">PTYPEOFPRESS</term>, <term
                    keyref="p-relationship-with-publisher">PRELATIONSHIPWITHPUBLISHER</term>, <term
                    keyref="p-earnings">PEARNINGS</term>, etc. This element has no mandatory or
                optional sub-elements.</p><p>A note on <q>self-publication</q>: this attribute
                doesn't refer only to those works published by vanity presses (or, today,
                independently on the web). In some cases, where the title page bears the words
                    <q>Printed [sometimes published] for the author,</q> it means that the publisher
                wouldn't take the risk, so charged the author for publication and any profits then
                went to her. It was a sign of the author's confidence in her own work and could work
                out very well financially, or not. See the second example below regarding Eliza
                Fenwick.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PMODEOFPUBLICATION&gt; It was unusual for Eliza Fenwick&apos;s novel to
                be published by a conger, that is a whole group of
                publishers.&lt;/PMODEOFPUBLICATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PMODEOFPUBLICATION
                PUBLICATIONMODE=&quot;self-publication&quot; &gt;&quot;Printed for the author&quot;
                meant that Eliza Fenwick paid her publishers to produce her book and kept whatever
                profit it brought in her own
                hands.&lt;/PMODEOFPUBLICATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;PMODEOFPUBLICATION
                PUBLICATIONMODE=&quot;subscription&quot;&gt; Joanna Baillie enlisted subscribers,
                including Sir Walter Scott, to help her publish her first slim volume of
                poetry.&lt;/PMODEOFPUBLICATION&gt; </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>One complication in this element is that the nature of <q>publisher</q> has changed over
                time. Try to remain sensitive to the historical nuances of your discussion.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
