<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="political-affiliation">
    <glossterm>POLITICALAFFILIATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-element within POLITICS and
                    <term keyref="cultural-formation">CULTURALFORMATION</term> (in the <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section of entries) tracks the beliefs,
                affiliations, connections, activities, and associations which designate a person's
                political life. Use it for mature commitment or for early exposure (like the devoted
                Communist activism of Jackie Kay’s adoptive parents). Encloses the names of
                political parties, but also of broader movements: imperialist or pacifist or
                vegetarian. These affiliations can be both formal connections to a party or
                organization and informal political positions held by the writer. We hope to point
                our readers towards women writers associated with different political positions and
                help researchers make links between political beliefs and writing. For this reason,
                we are defining POLITICALAFFILIATIONs broadly and include things like <q>against
                    capital punishment</q> or <q>strong supporter of the Empire</q> (imperialist),
                or campaigner against vivisection or for animal rights, in addition to more
                straightforward affiliations such as <q>marxist</q> or
                <q>conservative.</q></p><p>POLITICALAFFILIATION has optional attributes of <term
                    keyref="activism">ACTIVISM</term>, <term keyref="involvement"
                >INVOLVEMENT</term>, <term keyref="membership">MEMBERSHIP</term> (for three
                alternative levels of commitment: choose only one for a single element), and <term
                    keyref="woman-gender-issue">WOMAN-GENDERISSUE</term>, to specify the level and
                type of affiliation described. Other optional attributes are <term keyref="reg"
                    >REG</term> (which allows you to use a standard term if you have been unable to
                do in your prose: <q>strong supporter of the Empire" REG=”imperialist</q>), <term
                    keyref="current-alternative-term">CURRENTALTERNATIVETERM</term> (for use when a
                historical term has been replaced with a new one: Whig Reg=<q>Liberal</q>), and Id
                (an attribute which is NOT to be used). Try to include at least one
                POLITICALAFFILIATION sub-element in all <term keyref="politics">POLITICS</term>
                elements.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>“1910: RS became a &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION
                Reg=”suffragist”&gt;suffrage&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION&gt; supporter.”
                </codeblock><p>Working for suffrage was a common political activity and so can be
                tagged as POLITICALAFFILIATION. If the term or some equivalent is not used, include
                an empty PoliticalAffiliation element and capture this information in the Reg
                attribute:</p><codeblock>She worked tirelessly for the cause of
                &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION REG=”suffragist”&gt;votes for
                woman&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION&gt;. &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION
                woman-genderIssue=genderYes&gt;Enlightenment feminism&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION&gt;
                &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION
                INVOLVEMENT=&quot;InvolvementYes&quot;&gt;Socialist&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION&gt;
                &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION REG=”pro-animal rights”&gt;working for animal
                rights&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Tag all organized political parties and organizations with <term keyref="org-name"
                    >ORGNAME</term> (for example, Labour Party, PEN International). Tagging an
                OrgName within Politics does not denote that the person supported this organization.
                She may have protested vehemently against the Tory Party but Tory Party should be
                given an ORGNAME element. If she was a full supporter of the Tory Party, then as
                well as using ORGNAME, use a PoliticalAffiliation tag.</p><p> Try to use one the
                attributes to specify the level of affiliation, but leave blank if unknown or if
                they do not apply.</p><p> To the best of your ability, try to construct a sentence
                which allows you to put a POLITICALAFFILIATION tag around a word or short phrase.
                Instead of <q>She protested against the Darlington nuclear facility</q>, use <q>Her
                    anti-nuclear position informed protest against the Darlington nuclear
                    facility</q>, placing the tag around <q>anti-nuclear</q> rather than around
                    <q>protested against the Darlington nuclear facility</q>. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> When all you know about a woman writer is that she wrote radical
                feminist and working-class plays, how do you tag her POLITICALAFFILIATION?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> Discussion of political involvement will often involve making
                judgement calls. While critical discussion of the politics of her plays will be
                included in her writing document, think about using a phrase like <q>Although we
                    have no evidence of practical activism, her work demonstrates support for
                    radical feminist and working-class issues.</q></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
