<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="politics">
    <glossterm>POLITICS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>POLITICS is one of the 16 major content
                    <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> elements in <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> sections of entries defined as integral to mapping a woman's
                life.It should be placed in the appropriate chronological order within the biography
                document. It has one content sub-element, <term keyref="political-affiliation"
                    >POLITICALAFFILIATION</term>, that captures specific political positions taken
                up. Use several Politics elements if the document is longish and you need to cover
                different stages of political thinking and action. We have interpreted this
                big-bucket tag broadly—holding that it covers not only established political
                parties, but splinter groups, pressure groups, campaigners, resisters, ideology, and
                public goals. Women's involvement in political activities and organizations is a
                central critical concern in our literary history; we are interested in both how
                political awareness influenced women's writing and how writing influenced feminist
                political activity. Given the high priority we attach to political involvement,
                wherever possible include information concerning your subject’s political life, even
                if minimal.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;POLITICS&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;BJA was active in
                promoting and trying to improve education for women and the working
                classes.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;POLITICS&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;POLITICS&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1910&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;RS
                became a &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION
                REG=”suffragist”&gt;suffrage&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION&gt;
                supporter.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/POLITICS&gt;</codeblock><p>Suffrage
                is a common political activity and with <term keyref="reg">REG</term>=”suffragist”
                can be tagged as a <term keyref="political-affiliation">POLITICALAFFILIATION</term>.
                If it is not spelled out in the prose, consider using an empty PoliticalAffiliation
                element with a REG attribute. Try to do this whenever possible (particularly when
                POLITICALAFFILIATION is not identified in the prose) to ensure a writer's political
                involvement will be linked to the larger historical context.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Since political activities are prioritized, if an activity could equally be included
                in POLITICS or <term keyref="occupation">OCCUPATION</term>, include it under
                POLITICS or consider two, non-repetitious, statements.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If a woman writer worked for a pro-choice organization and was paid
                for her work, should this be included under <term keyref="occupation">OCCUPATION</term> or POLITICS?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> You will often find yourself making such judgement calls and the
                answer will depend on the context. But if she, herself, was pro-choice then the
                activity should be included under POLITICS. If your document flow allows, you may
                wish to include this information in different ways in two elements.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
