<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="p-relations-with-publisher">
    <glossterm>PRELATIONSWITHPUBLISHER</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This tag belongs within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="writing">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="production">PRODUCTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It is designed to capture the mainly professional relationship
                between a writer and her publisher (or, in the case of dramatists, her producer).
                Encloses a sentence or more: a detailed account of a 50-year relationship or the
                briefest summary. Publisher includes literary agent, theatre producer, etc. There
                are no mandatory sub-elements for this element, but if possible tag the publisher's
                    <term keyref="name">NAME</term> or <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term>. An
                optional attribute, <term keyref="relationship-type">RELATIONSHIPTYPE</term>, allows
                you to designate whether the relationship was <userinput>personal</userinput> or
                    <userinput>professional</userinput>. If you need both attribute values, arrange
                your prose accordingly.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u><p>Here, you can explain that the publisher encouraged her for six years,
                or that he gave her bad advice on copyright.</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;PRELATIONSWITHPUBLISHER&gt;During the publication of subsequent editions,
                DB had fierce disagreements with publishers including James Laughlin at
                &lt;ORGNAME&gt;New
                Directions.&lt;/ORGNAME&gt;&lt;/PRELATIONSWITHPUBLISHER&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;PRELATIONSWITHPUBLISHER&gt;The second edition or issue, printed that same year
                by a publisher in Fleet Street, seems to indicate that EF was displeased with the
                publishers she had first chosen.&lt;/PRELATIONSWITHPUBLISHER&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>This element involves a judgement call on the part of the researcher. If you think
                the aspects of the relationship which you wish to discuss are purely personal, then
                you might want to discuss the friendship in the <term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> section. If the
                relationship was more professional, or a mixture of personal and professional, or if
                its personal character was significant for her writing, then the writing section is
                the place.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
