<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="production">
    <glossterm>PRODUCTION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>One of only three big-bucket tags in
                    <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section of entries (in combination with
                    <term keyref="textual-features">TEXTUALFEATURES</term> and <term
                    keyref="reception">RECEPTION</term>). It should enclose information about the
                process of a text's production whether they be material or cultural. All other
                influences on the writer's life will be covered by the <term keyref="biography"
                    >BIOGRAPHY</term> section. PRODUCTION addresses the facts and factors of text
                creation and distribution, and the description of the text as object (bibliographic
                description). This category can address a single text, or a group of texts in cases
                where you want to make generalizations about them.</p><p>The WRITING schema has an
                unusual structure, different from that of the Biography schema:
                    <codeph>&lt;DIV1&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;PRODUCTION&gt; etc etc
                    &lt;/PRODUCTION&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/DIV1&gt; (where the Biography schema has
                    &lt;DIV1&gt;&lt;BIGBUCKETTAG&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/BIGBUCKETTAG&gt;&lt;/DIV1&gt;.</codeph>
                PRODUCTION encloses as many <term keyref="chronstruct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>s and <term
                    keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term>s as are needed to relate how a text or
                group of texts came into being: inspiration, conditions of work, copying or
                publication, obstacles along the way, plus later embodiments in revised editions,
                adaptations, etc. Subtags which belong logically or conceptually within Production
                are flagged with an initial P in their name, like <term keyref="p-anthologization"
                    >PANTHOLOGIZATION</term>, <term keyref="p-contract">PCONTRACT</term>, but any
                tag named with an initial T or R (for <term keyref="textual-features"
                    >TEXTUALFEATURES</term> or <term keyref="reception">RECEPTION</term>) is also
                allowable within PRODUCTION, and vice versa (tags with initial P allowed in <term
                    keyref="textual-features">TEXTUALFEATURES</term> and <term keyref="reception"
                    >RECEPTION</term>). We chose this flexibility because of the interrelatedness of
                the topics: production elements like decorative features may relate closely to
                textual features like imagery, which in turn have elicited particular responses from
                critics.</p><p>This element should enclose at least one paragraph if not more. Like
                    <term keyref="textual-features">TEXTUALFEATURES</term> and <term
                    keyref="reception">RECEPTION</term>, it must be opened immediately after a <term
                    keyref="div2">DIV2</term>. No text is allowed directly within the Production
                element; another element (Chronstruct or Shortprose plus &lt;P&gt;) must be opened
                first. The many sub-elements that are conceptually linked to the production of a
                text, and are prefaced by a small <q>p</q>, are available in <term
                    keyref="textual-features">TEXTUALFEATURES</term> and <term keyref="reception"
                        >RECEPTION</term> as well as in PRODUCTION element. PRODUCTION can validly
                include any of the elements prefaced by <q>r</q> or <q>t</q> as well as
                <q>p</q>.</p></div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
