<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="publisher">
    <glossterm>PUBLISHER</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement</u><p>The Publisher field is available in the Bibliography
                Database to record the publisher's name as per MLA practice.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>The Orlando Project follows MLA practice with a few exceptions. For example, do not
                use the abbreviation UP; instead, write out the words University Press. Other MLA
                rules apply: omit business abbreviations (Co., Corp., Inc.) and descriptive words
                (Books, House, Press, Publishers).</p><p> We normally give the shortest version of
                the publisher's name that still maintains clarity. For example, Gollancz rather than
                Victor Gollancz; J. Johnson rather than Joseph Johnson or Johnson; Macmillan rather
                than Macmillan and Co. BUT check authority list or whatever list of standard
                OrgNames Orlando uses in the future.</p><p> Do not replicate ampersands in
                publishers' names and do not use ampersands in the Bibliography Database. Ampersands
                have their own meaning in SGML; as a result they will wreak havoc within text marked
                up in SGML. Expand to <q>and</q>.</p><p> Use the abbreviation n.p. if the publisher's
                name is not available. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
