<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="punctuation">
    <glossterm>PUNCTUATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition</u><p>See practice issues below.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> 1. paste the example from the GDrive document and make sure you correct all
                the well-formedness errors Oxygen will point out. 2. copy the corrected fragment
                from Oxygen and escape special characters at <xref
                    href="https://www.freeformatter.com/xml-escape.html#ad-output"
                    >https://www.freeformatter.com/xml-escape.html#ad-output</xref> 3. Copy the
                escaped text back into OXygen to replace the non-escaped code </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Punctuation goes inside structure tags but always outside content tags.</p><p>
                <codeph>&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;EHY died from &lt;CAUSE&gt;lung
                    cancer&lt;/CAUSE&gt;.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;</codeph></p><p> The period is outside
                the content element of "cause" even though it ends the sentence, but inside the
                structure tag of <q><term keyref="chron-prose">CHRONRPOSE</term>.</q></p><p>
                Punctuate quotations generally in MLA style. The commonest punctuation marks (comma,
                period) go inside quotation marks even if not so in the original; semi-colons,
                dashes, etc., if not in original, go outside quote marks. EXCEPTION: because of the
                nature of our tagging, place period BEFORE a bibcit (according to MLA style periods
                go after parenthetical citations, but we judge that <term keyref="bib-cit"
                    >BIBCIT</term>s display better outside punctuation).</p><p> If you are using the
                quote tag and wondering about how to punctuate, use the following guidelines: put
                punctuation inside sentences and longish phrases; outside punctuation for mere words
                and phrases (three words or less). We can be less strict about the use of
                punctuation around the quote tag because the content inside it will not be sorted in
                the same way that the information within a title tag will be sorted. For instance,
                our delivery system would not be able to equate <q>The Waves</q> with <q>The
                    Waves.</q> because of the period, but we will never be sorting quotations in
                quite the same way.</p><p>Please use a comma before the final <q>and</q> in lists.
                For example, write <q>x, y, and z</q> rather than <q>x, y and z.</q></p><p>Do not
                punctuate titles such as Mrs and Mr, etc. if the final letter of the word is present
                in the abbreviation. See also Abbreviations.</p><p>If you wish to use a long dash
                for emphasis in your writing, please use the entity emdash (look under entities).
                Use it with no spaces on either side.</p><p>When using ellipses, please place a
                space between the periods: . . . . Four periods indicate that the omission contained
                a period, three that it did not. Don’t render the three periods in an ellipsis
                without spaces between them.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
