<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="quote">
    <glossterm>QUOTE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This element is globally available. It is
                modified by one attribute, <term keyref="direct">DIRECT</term>. The attribute
                options are yes (y), no (n), or unspecified (unspecified). These govern whether the
                words within the quote will be set off with single or double quotes. Use DIRECT=Y
                attribute whenever words are not your own; use DIRECT=N for quote within quote.
                Orlando convention is: supply comma or period at end of quote, inside tag, where
                necessary for the sense; other punctuation not in the source, like semi-colon, dash,
                etc., must go outside tag.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Question: Do I need to use a Quote element every time I want to use quotation marks?
                Answer: Use a Quote element every time you use a quotation, but never enter
                quotation marks in your documents. Quotation marks will be supplied by the system
                for the Quote element as well as for a few other elements such as analytic titles
                and words appearing in the <term keyref="so-called">SOCALLED</term> element. The
                following is a brief summary of practice around the proper use of the Quote element.
                Each issue listed here is discussed in detail with examples below.</p><p><ul>
                    <li>A bibCit must follow every quote tag or small group of short quotes in bio
                        and writing docs</li>
                    <li>A bibCit is optional following a quote tag in events: since events are
                        normally short, a single bibCit may suffice.</li>
                    <li>Periods and commas should be placed inside the quote tag for quotes of three
                        words or more.</li>
                    <li>bibCits following quotes should be spaced as if they were not part of the
                        document</li>
                    <li>a person quoted from a source that she/he did not author must be referred to
                        as "qtd. in" in the bibCit attributes</li>
                    <li>the direct attribute on quote should be filled in to "y" unless one quote
                        tag is embedded inside another at which point; in this case the outer tag
                        should be DIRECT="y" and the inner tag should be DIRECT="n"</li>
                    <li>page numbers in bibCits should not repeat numbers except in the teens (65-6
                        NOT 65-66 but 17-19 NOT 17-9).</li>
                </ul></p><p>See also SoCalled.</p><p/>
            <div>
                <u>Examples</u>
                <p>It was originally opened by Queen Victoria as the People&apos;s Palace, a place
                    of <codeph>&lt;QUOTE DIRECT=y&gt;rational and instructive entertainment and of
                        artistic enjoyment&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;BIBCIT&gt;Harte
                        174&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;</codeph> for the people of East London. Note: no space
                    between the end of the quote and the beginning of the <term keyref="bib-cit"
                        >BIBCIT</term>, but there is a space after the BIBCIT before the following
                    word.</p>
                <p>If a single source is quoted many times in one sentence, the BIBCIT should
                    immediately follow the end of the sentence.</p><p>Linking alcohol to higher
                    incidents of domestic abuse and violence, LA goes on to describe how the law
                    favours men and disfavours women. She details two points on which
                        <codeph>&lt;QUOTE DIRECT=&quot;Y&quot;&gt;laws bear hard on
                        women.&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;BIBCIT Qtd. in “QtdInYes”&gt;Le Breton
                        368-9&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;</codeph></p><p>The first concerns the <codeph>&lt;QUOTE
                        DIRECT=&quot;Y&quot;&gt;want of a stricter hand against the inveiglers of
                        girls for wicked purposes&lt;/QUOTE&gt;; the second deplores a man&apos;s
                        right to child custody when his &lt;QUOTE DIRECT=&quot;Y&quot;&gt;offences
                        have compelled an innocent wife to obtain a divorce from
                        him.&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;BIBCITqtd. in”QtdInYes”&gt; Le Breton
                        368-9&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;</codeph></p><p>If a person other than the author of the
                    work cited in the BIBCIT is quoted then use the <userinput>QtdInYes</userinput>
                    value on the attribute <q>qtd. in</q> found on the BIBCIT element. In her last
                    editorial, Hanna Sheehy Skeffington wrote <codeph>&lt;QUOTE
                        DIRECT=&quot;Y&quot;&gt;the national struggle overshadows all
                        else.&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;BIBCIT qtd in “QtdInYes”&gt; McKillen
                        84&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;</codeph></p><p>If both the author of the work cited in the
                    bibCit and another person are quoted in a single quote tag, then embed one quote
                    tag inside another. Do not adopt <q>qtd. in</q> practice for such examples.
                    According to literary historian Chris Baldick, <codeph>&lt;QUOTE
                        DIRECT=&quot;Y&quot;&gt;Maurice&apos;s own hope was that through the
                        college&apos;s work, &lt;QUOTE DIRECT=&quot;N&quot;&gt;class may be united
                        to class, not by necessity only, but by generous duties and common
                        sympathies.&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;/QUOTE&gt;&lt;BIBCIT&gt;Baldick
                        63&lt;/BIBCIT&gt;</codeph></p><p>The direct attribute value is No for one
                    QUOTE tag inside another. The inner of the two QUOTE tags has attribute value
                    No. All other QUOTE tags should have the direct attribute value
                        <userinput>Yes</userinput>.</p><p>Spacing should read properly with the
                        <term keyref="bib-cit">BIBCIT</term> removed.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
