<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="race-colour">
    <glossterm>RACECOLOUR</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This sub-element is found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. Within those tags, it might or might not also be within <term
                    keyref="race-and-ethnicity">RACEANDETHNICITY</term>, captures information about
                a person's perceived or lived racial identity. See RACEANDETHNICITY for a detailed
                description of the complexities of this element. It encloses usually a single word,
                occasionally more, and has optional attributes of <term keyref="forebear"
                    >FOREBEAR</term>, <term keyref="self-defined">SELFDEFINED</term> and <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> (allowing you to standardize the raceColour if this is
                desirable but not feasible in your prose). We have tried to counter the effect of
                    <q>white</q> as default by sentences like <q>She was presumably white</q> or by
                inserting an empty RACECOLOUR tag with REG value
            <userinput>white</userinput>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>Both of Aguilar&apos;s parents were presumably &lt;RACECOLOUR
                FOREBEAR=&quot;parents&quot;&gt;white&lt;/RACECOLOUR&gt; and of
                &lt;NATIONALHERITAGE&gt;Spanish&lt;/NATIONALHERITAGE&gt; &lt;ETHNICITY
                FOREBEAR=&quot;parents&quot;&gt;Jewish&lt;/ETHNICITY&gt;
                descent.</codeblock><codeblock>MP is a &lt;RACECOLOUR&gt;black&lt;/RACECOLOUR&gt;
                woman writer originally from the Caribbean. </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Although we do not want to insist on naming the presumed whiteness of British women
                writers in every case where we presume whiteness, it is sometimes very effective to
                do so. We especially want to do this in cases where there is some question about the
                writer's whiteness (e.g. Elizabeth Barrett Browning). Whiteness should also be named
                in the cases of colonial women travellers and everyone else from after World War II
                when a sizeable resident non-white population re-established itself in Britain. To
                do this, we ask that you open an empty RACECOLOUR element (if not already used in
                the prose) and regularize the attribute to <q>white.</q></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
