<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="r-best-known-work">
    <glossterm>RBESTKNOWNWORK</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>RBESTKNOWNWORK is an element belonging to
                the <term keyref="reception">RECEPTION</term> aspect of entries, though available
                anywhere in the <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section. It identifies the
                single work whose reputation exceeds others, according to external criteria (best
                known in literary circles), and can occur once per genre for some writers. It
                encloses a statement, not just a title (which is highly desirable here). It should
                be placed in a <term keyref="chronstruct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> if that fits the sense,
                and should normally not be used in a <term keyref="short-prose">SHORTPROSE</term> if
                there is more than one chronStruct in the Div2.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;RBESTKNOWNWORK&gt;Anne Grant&apos;s best known work today (though it is
                known without her name) must be “Oh where, tell me where, is your Highland laddie
                gone.”&lt;/RBESTKNOWNWORK&gt; </codeblock><codeblock> &lt;RBESTKNOWNWORKk&gt;Anne
                Barnard&apos;s “Auld Robin Gray” always enjoyed great
                popularity.&lt;/RBESTKNOWNWORK&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><i>Black Beauty</i> and <i>Little Black Sambo</i> are best-known works. Woolf's <i>To
                    The Lighthous</i>e would be her best-known work while <i>The Waves</i> is a
                landmark text for signalling a major shift in writing style. A work can be both a
                    <q>best known work</q> and a <q>landmark text</q>: <i>Uncle Tom's Cabin</i>, for
                instance. The <q>landmark</q> effect can be either social or literary. See <term
                    keyref="landmark-text">LANDMARKTEXT</term>. N.b. use of this tag puts any
                associated CHRONSTRUCT among the <term keyref="milestones">MILESTONES</term> of this
                entry.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> How can I distinguish a best-known text from a Landmark Text?
                    </p><p><b>Answer:</b> See discussion in Practice Issues and see <term
                    keyref="landmark-text">LANDMARKTEXT</term>.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
