<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="recognition-name">
    <glossterm>RECOGNITIONNAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This term that is closely related to and
                often placed within the Recognitions element belongs conceptually within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">RECEPTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It supplies the name of a particular award or prize given to an
                author. Generally encloses one or two words, the name of an award, but can enclose
                more words, e.g. <q>short-listed</q> for or <q>runner-up to</q>. The <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute offers a way to chart the changes of name
                often undergone by awards, like the Bailey’s Prize / the Orange Prize for Women’s
                Writing. Use the textbase itself to ascertain our practice in each case. This
                element has no mandatory or optional sub-elements.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>particular publications rather than a summary concluding Reputation paragraph. But
                you might also say in an <term keyref="author-summary">AUTHORSUMMARY</term> or a
                concluding discussion that <q>the tremendous critical acclaim that greeted her work
                    garnered her twenty-five Booker Prizes by the end of her career.</q></p><p> When
                including the fact that a woman writer received a CBE, DBE, or OBE in recognition of
                her literary achievements, the practice is to use the acronyms for the awards in
                your prose and spell out their meaning in the attributes as follows: CBE Commander
                of the Order of the British Empire; DBE Dame Commander of the Order of the British
                Empire; OBE Officer of the Order of the British Empire. Anyone needing further info
                can go to the textbase itself, or to: <xref
                    href="http://www.kcl.ac.uk/lhcma/misc/medals.htm"
                    >http://www.kcl.ac.uk/lhcma/misc/medals.htm</xref>.</p><p>Although the full
                recognition names include Most Excellent, as in Dame Commander, Most Excellent Order
                of the British Empire, we do not need to include that part.</p><p> The above
                designations, CBE, DBE, and OBE, almost always belong in the writing docs. This
                designation would be discussed in the biography (without the tag) only if it was
                nothing to do with her writing, but rewarded some other activity. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
