<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="region">
    <glossterm>REGION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>REGION, a globally available sub-element
                of <term keyref="place">PLACE</term>, captures the name of the place only and
                excludes all punctuation. It must be followed by a <term keyref="geog">GEOG</term>
                tag (except in cases where a REGION straddles more than one GEOG), and has optional
                attributes <term keyref="current">CURRENT</term> and <term keyref="reg">REG</term>.
                It captures the following geographical and political units:</p><p>
                <ul>
                    <li>Political regions (counties) of the British Isles: Cornwall, Durham,
                        Hampshire</li>
                    <li>Political regions (provinces or states) of other countries: Alberta, Madras,
                        California</li>
                    <li>Topographical features: all mountain ranges, individual mountains, islands
                        (when not nation states), valleys, forests, etc.</li>
                    <li>Bodies of Water (including oceans, rivers, lakes): Lake Simcoe, English
                        Channel, Nile, Atlantic Ocean.</li>
                    <li>Geographical regions: Lake District, Scottish Highlands, Welsh border,
                        Tibetan border.</li>
                </ul>
            </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;REGION&gt;Virginia&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                CURRENT=&quot;USA&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; became a Crown
                Colony.</codeblock><codeblock>TH was born
                at&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;SETTLEMENT&gt;Uffington&lt;/SETTLEMENT&gt; in
                &lt;REGION&gt;Berkshire&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                REG=&quot;England&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;.</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;REGION&gt;Lake Ontario&lt;/REGION&gt;,
                &lt;GEOG&gt;Canada&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>See <term keyref="place">PLACE</term> for general practice issues.</p><p>For all
                settlements in the British Isles, Canada, the US, and Australia a <term
                    keyref="region">REGION</term> and a <term keyref="geog">GEOG</term> sub-element
                must be included. If you do not want to include the name of the region/geog in your
                prose, use an empty tag with text in the <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute
                only.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Standard Vocabulary for Regions of the British Isles</u>
            <p>The following is a list of regions (counties) that the Orlando Project uses to
                standardize regions in the British Isles. All places within the British Isles
                require one of these names. For specific practice issues around the use of these
                regions, see <u>Practice Issues</u> discussions which follow these lists. The
                abbreviations may be found in your source, but Orlando does not use them.</p>
            <p>England:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Avon (county taking in Bristol and Bath, which lasted only 1974-98)</li>
                    <li> Bedfordshire (Beds)</li>
                    <li> Berkshire (Berks)</li>
                    <li> Buckinghamshire (Bucks)</li>
                    <li> Cambridgeshire (Cambs)</li>
                    <li> Cheshire</li>
                    <li> Cornwall</li>
                    <li> Cumberland (now abolished, amalgamated with Westmorland as Cumbria)</li>
                    <li> Derbyshire (Derby)</li>
                    <li> Devon (do not use Devonshire, Dorsetshire, or Somersetshire, tho they may
                        be found in source).</li>
                    <li> Dorset</li>
                    <li> Durham</li>
                    <li> Essex</li>
                    <li> Gloucestershire (Glos)</li>
                    <li> Hampshire(Hants)</li>
                    <li> Herefordshire (recently amalgamated with its neighbour to form Hereford and
                        Worcester: during 1974-98)</li>
                    <li> Hertfordshire (Herts)</li>
                    <li> Kent</li>
                    <li> Lancashire (Lancs)</li>
                    <li> Leicestershire (Leics)</li>
                    <li> Lincolnshire (Lincs)</li>
                    <li> Merseyside (recently created; used to be partly Lancs, partly
                        Cheshire)</li>
                    <li> Middlesex (defunct)</li>
                    <li> Norfolk</li>
                    <li> Northamptonshire (Northants)</li>
                    <li> Northumberland</li>
                    <li> Nottinghamshire (Notts)</li>
                    <li> Oxfordshire (Oxon)</li>
                    <li> Rutland (used to be smallest county: gone)</li>
                    <li> Shropshire (Salop)</li>
                    <li> Somerset (Som)</li>
                    <li> Staffordshire (Staffs)</li>
                    <li> Suffolk</li>
                    <li> Surrey</li>
                    <li> Sussex (now administratively divided into West and East)</li>
                    <li> Tyne and Wear (recently created from partly Durham, partly
                        Northumberland)</li>
                    <li> Warwickshire (Warwicks)</li>
                    <li> West Midlands (recent creation; do not know why they didn't call it Greater
                        Birmingham on analogy with London/ Manchester)</li>
                    <li> Westmorland (see Cumberland)</li>
                    <li> Wiltshire (Wilts)</li>
                    <li> Worcestershire (Worcs: see note on Hereford)</li>
                    <li> Yorkshire (Yorks: now divided administratively into North, West, and South
                        Yorks, though historical division was into Ridings: North, West, and
                        East)</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>[In general use historic county names, with explanatory <term
                    keyref="scholar-note">SCHOLARNOTE</term> as necessary. A SCHOLARNOTE is welcome,
                too, in cases of boundary change. Do not say Somersetshire, Devonshire, or
                Dorsetshire.]</p>
            <p>Wales:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Anglesey, island of (now in Gwynedd)</li>
                    <li> Brecknock (now part of Powys)</li>
                    <li> Caernarvon (now in Gwynedd)</li>
                    <li> Cardigan (now part of Dyfed)</li>
                    <li> Carmarthen (now part of Dyfed)</li>
                    <li> Clwyd (used to be Denbigh and Flint)</li>
                    <li> Denbigh (now part of Clwyd)</li>
                    <li> Dyfed (used to be Cardigan, Carmarthen, and Pembroke)</li>
                    <li> Flint (now part of Clwyd)</li>
                    <li> Glamorgan (Glam: the industrial part, name amazingly survived; now divided
                        into West Glam, Mid Glam and South Glam)</li>
                    <li> Gwent (used to be Monmouth)</li>
                    <li> Gwynedd (used to be Caernarvon, Merioneth, and the separate island of
                        Anglesey)</li>
                    <li> Merioneth (now in Gwynedd)</li>
                    <li> Monmouth (now Gwent)</li>
                    <li> Montgomery (now in Powys)</li>
                    <li> Pembroke (now part of Dyfed)</li>
                    <li> Powys (used to be Montgomery, Radnor, and Brecknock)</li>
                    <li> Radnor (now part of Powys)</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>[Note: The old Welsh county names often come with <q>-shire</q> attached, but
                it's not correct. Unlike practice with English names, use current names when
                possible, as courtesy to the Welsh language. Fill in <term keyref="reg">REG</term>
                tag with traditional (English) name if it’s in your source, and repeat present-day
                name in <term keyref="current">CURRENT</term> attribute so that both come up in
                search results.]</p>
            <p>Scotland:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Aberdeen (now part of Grampian)</li>
                    <li> Angus (now in Tayside)</li>
                    <li> Argyll (now in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Ayr (now in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Banff (now part of Grampian)</li>
                    <li> Berwick (now part of Borders)</li>
                    <li> Borders (a new entity swallowing up Berwick, Peebles, Roxburgh,
                        Selkirk)</li>
                    <li> Caithness (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Bute (now in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Caithness (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Central (used to be Clackmannan, Stirling, and part of Perth)</li>
                    <li> Clackmannan (smallest Scots county, now in Central)</li>
                    <li> Cromarty (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Dumfries and Galloway (new entity, taking in Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, and
                        Wigtown)</li>
                    <li> Dunbarton (now in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Fife (used to be Kinross and Fife)</li>
                    <li> Galloway (see Dumfries)</li>
                    <li> Grampian (used to be Aberdeen, Banff, Kincardine, Moray)</li>
                    <li> Hebrides (see Inner and Outer)</li>
                    <li> Highland (used to be Caithness, Inverness, Nairn, Ross and Cromarty - a
                        doublet - and Sutherland)</li>
                    <li> Inner Hebrides (now divided between Highland and Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Inverness (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Kincardine (now in Grampian)</li>
                    <li> Kinross (now part of Fife)</li>
                    <li> Kirkcudbright, pronounced Kircoobry (now part of Dumfries and
                        Galloway)</li>
                    <li> Lanark (now in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Lothian (used to be West Lothian, Midlothian, East Lothian)</li>
                    <li> Moray (now in Grampian)</li>
                    <li> Nairn (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Orkney (separate group of islands, administratively a county of
                        Scotland)</li>
                    <li> Outer Hebrides (now officially known by traditional name of Western
                        Isles)</li>
                    <li> Peebles (now part of Borders)</li>
                    <li> Perth (now in Tayside and Central)</li>
                    <li> Renfrew (now in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Ross and Cromarty (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Roxburgh (now part of Borders)</li>
                    <li> Selkirk (now part of Borders)</li>
                    <li> Shetland (separate group of islands, administratively a county of
                        Scotland)</li>
                    <li> Stirling (now in Central)</li>
                    <li> Strathclyde (used to be Argyll, Ayr, Bute, Dunbarton, Lanark, Renfrew)</li>
                    <li> Sutherland and Cromarty (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Tayside (used to be Angus, Kinross, Perth)</li>
                    <li> Western Isles (= Outer Hebrides)</li>
                    <li> Wigtown (now part of Dumfries and Galloway)</li>
                    <li> Zetland, old name for Shetland</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>[Note: Most Scottish county names do not use <q>shire</q>.]</p>
            <p>Other Scottish area names which are old but may still be used:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Badenoch (now in Highland)</li>
                    <li> Breadalbane (now in Tayside)</li>
                    <li> Braemar (now in Grampian)</li>
                    <li> Buchan (in Grampian)</li>
                    <li> Carrick (in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Cunningham (in Strathclyde)</li>
                    <li> Dundee (in Tayside)</li>
                    <li> Lochaber (in Highland)</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>Orlando practice is much less clear over Scotland than over England or Wales.
                    <q>Hebrides</q> has been used as a <term keyref="region">REGION</term>, which is
                accurate geographically if not administratively. It seems a shame for ancient names
                like Badenoch and Braemar to vanish into composite bureaucratic abstractions. We are
                still using Midlothian as the REGION for Edinburgh. Just follow your source; try to
                use the attributes <term keyref="current">CURRENT</term> and <term keyref="reg"
                    >REG</term> helpfully for users; remember if you use one of these you need to
                use both to keep both in play.</p>
            <p>Ireland:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Carlow</li>
                    <li> Cavan</li>
                    <li> Clare</li>
                    <li> Connemara</li>
                    <li> Cork</li>
                    <li> Donegal</li>
                    <li> Dublin</li>
                    <li> Galway</li>
                    <li> Kerry</li>
                    <li> Kilkenny</li>
                    <li> Laoghis</li>
                    <li> Leitrim</li>
                    <li> Limerick</li>
                    <li> Longford</li>
                    <li> Louth</li>
                    <li> Mayo</li>
                    <li> Meath</li>
                    <li> Monaghan</li>
                    <li> Offaly</li>
                    <li> Roscommon</li>
                    <li> Sligo</li>
                    <li> Wicklow</li>
                    <li> Tipperary</li>
                    <li> Waterford</li>
                    <li> Westmeath</li>
                    <li> Wexford</li>
                    <li> Wicklow</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>Older sources often give <q>County Mayo</q>, <q>County Clare</q>, etc. (for some
                English counties too). If you follow this, use <term keyref="reg">REG</term>
                attribute value without the <userinput>County</userinput>. Of ancient Irish
                kingdoms: Connaught or Connacht included: Mayo, Roscommon, Galway; Munster included
                Limerick, Kerry, Cork, part of Tipperary. Connacht and Munster can be used as
                REGIONs too.</p>
            <p>Northern Ireland:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Antrim</li>
                    <li> Armagh</li>
                    <li> Down</li>
                    <li> Fermanagh</li>
                    <li> Londonderry</li>
                    <li> Tyrone</li>
                </ul>
            </p>
            <p>Do NOT abbreviate names of regions: not <q>Glos</q> but <q>Gloucestershire</q>. The
                abbreviated names provided above are simply to identify short forms used in other
                reference sources. If you do not wish to spell out the region in prose, do so in a
                    <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute.</p><p>Do NOT use <q>co</q> for counties
                even if your source does (i.e. use <q>Durham</q> and not <q>Co.
                Durham</q>).</p><p>For all places in Northern Ireland, include one of the six
                counties. Irish placenames pose some particular problems because of the changing
                political constitution of the region. For example, Belfast. By making sure to
                include a region sub-element for all places in Northern Ireland, we can
                geographically locate the places rather than entering into the politically fractious
                debate about Ireland vs. Northern Ireland and the histories thereof. Only the <term
                    keyref="geog">GEOG</term> changes for the Six Counties, from being part of
                Ireland to becoming part of Northern Ireland: in these cases use <term
                    keyref="current">CURRENT</term> attribute on the Geog.</p><p>Islands are regions
                except when they are nation states. For example, Crete is a REGION with a GEOG
                sub-element for Greece, whereas Barbados (topographically an island) is a
                GEOG.</p><p>Standard way of referring to Isle of Skye is <q>Isle of Skye</q> and not
                just <q>Skye</q>.</p><p>Mountain Ranges: try to include a GEOG element when one
                country embraces the range, and use the formal title (e.g. Rocky Mountains not
                Rockies). Do not include <q>the</q> in the REGION sub-element. If you don’t know
                which GEOG is meant, omit this tag.</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;the
                    &lt;REGION&gt;Rocky Mountains&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=&quot;Canada&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt; OR &lt;PLACE&gt;the
                    &lt;REGION&gt;Rocky Mountains&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    REG=&quot;USA&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph></p>
            <p>Topographical regions: here are some standard allowable topographical REGIONs:</p><p><ul>
                    <li>Blackdown Hills: Devon and Somerset</li>
                    <li> Bowland Forest (Yorks, Lancs)</li>
                    <li> Brecon Beacons: Brecknock (don't confuse w next)</li>
                    <li> Bredon Hill: Worcs</li>
                    <li> Brendon Hills: Somerset</li>
                    <li> Cheviot Hills (Northumberland and Roxburgh [now Borders], Scotland)</li>
                    <li> Chiltern Hills, Bucks, Oxon</li>
                    <li> Cleveland Hills: Yorks</li>
                    <li> Cotswold Hills, Oxon, Glos</li>
                    <li> The Dales: Yorks and Durham</li>
                    <li> Dartmoor: in Devon</li>
                    <li> The Dukeries: Notts</li>
                    <li> Epping Forest: Essex</li>
                    <li> Forest of Dean: in Glos</li>
                    <li> Exmoor: Devon and Somerset</li>
                    <li> Galloway: Kirkcudbright and Wigtown</li>
                    <li> Hambleton Hills: Yorks</li>
                    <li> Home Counties: originally Kent, Surrey, Essex, Middlesex; later incl Bucks,
                        Berks, Herts and Sussex (source, Brewer).</li>
                    <li> The Lake District: Cumberland and Westmorland</li>
                    <li> Macgillicuddy's Reeks: Kerry</li>
                    <li> Mendip Hills, Somerset</li>
                    <li> The New Forest, in Hants</li>
                    <li> North Downs: in Kent and Surrey</li>
                    <li> Ochil Hills: Perth, Clackmannan, Kinross</li>
                    <li> The Peak District: Derbyshire</li>
                    <li> Pennine Hills (Cumberland, Westmorland, Durham, Yorks)</li>
                    <li> Pentland Hills (Lanark, Midlothian)</li>
                    <li> The Potteries: Staffs</li>
                    <li> Quantock Hills, Somerset</li>
                    <li> Romney Marsh, Kent</li>
                    <li> South Downs: in Kent and Sussex</li>
                    <li> Sedgemoor: Somerset</li>
                    <li> Sherwood Forest: Notts</li>
                    <li> The Shires: Leics, Northants, Rutland</li>
                    <li> Thames Valley: Surrey, Berks, Bucks, Oxon</li>
                    <li> The Weald: Kent, Sussex</li>
                    <li> The Wolds: Yorks, Lincs</li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>[Note: Remember, articles are not placed inside sub-elements]</p>
            <p>Valleys can be tagged as REGIONs; try to include an identifiable GEOG. Bodies of
                waters are REGIONs but, wherever possible, situate them within a regularized
                attribute of an identifiable GEOG or other REGION. Include the name of the type of
                body of water within the prose (for example, river, lake,
                    ocean).</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;the &lt;REGION&gt;River
                    Nile&lt;REGION/&gt;&lt;GEOG REG=&quot;Egypt&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt; but
                    &lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;REGION&gt;River Danube&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph>
                [since it flows through more than one GEOG].</p>
            <p>When a place was formerly a geo-political entity but is now a Region within a
                country, or vice versa (for example, Upper Canada or Newfoundland) make use of the
                Current attribute:</p><p><codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;REGION&gt;Upper
                    Canada&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG
                    CURRENT=&quot;Canada&quot;&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph>
                <codeph>&lt;PLACE&gt;&lt;REGION&gt;Newfoundland&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;geog
                    CURRENT=”Canada” REG=”Newfoundland”&gt;&lt;/PLACE&gt;</codeph></p>
            <p>When a border is tagged, the term <codeph>&quot;border&quot; must be included in the
                    prose of the Region sub-element: &lt;REGION&gt;Welsh
                    Borders&lt;/REGION&gt;&lt;GEOG REG=”Wales”&gt;&lt;/GEOG&gt;</codeph></p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Are the Balkan Countries a region?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> No. They're a <term keyref="geog">GEOG</term>. Regions apply only to areas which are
                conceptually smaller than nation states. If the place is a collection of nation
                states, enter as a GEOG. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
