<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="relation-to">
    <glossterm>RELATIONTO</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This mandatory attribute attached to the
                    <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term> content tag is found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">LOCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. These tags describes a person's geographical movements, and
                therefore RELATIONTO will allow us to distinguish between different kinds of
                relations to place: <userinput>Migrated</userinput>,
                <userinput>Traveled</userinput>, <userinput>Lived</userinput>,
                    <userinput>Visited</userinput>, and <userinput>Moved</userinput> (see
                Relationships below for definitions.</p>
            <p>
                <userinput>Migrated</userinput> includes emigration and immigration. A move from
                England to Scotland is considered a migration.</p>
            <p>
                <userinput>Travelled</userinput>: applies to journeys and emphasizes the act of
                travelling rather than a long stay in one place. See
                <userinput>visited</userinput>.</p><p>
                <userinput>lived</userinput>: applies to a discussion of the place where she lived.
                Related to <userinput>Moved</userinput> but covers the date range of the time she
                lived in a place as opposed to solely the date of her move.</p><p>
                <userinput>visited</userinput>: applies to a journey of longer duration than a
                travel; its main purpose is usually to spend a protracted period visiting a family
                member or friend. For example, use <userinput>visited</userinput> if your woman
                writer spent a winter in Bath with her aunt. Visited may be particularly applicable
                to the early periods because women writers often spent long periods of time living
                elsewhere.</p><p>
                <userinput>moved</userinput>: applies to the event of her moving. Try to include as
                chronological events all the major moves in her life, unless she moved too often for
                this to be feasible. Try to include and tag the place moved from as well as the
                place moved to.</p><p>
                <userinput>unknown</userinput>: applies to information about her geographical
                movements that is unspecified. Since kind is a required attribute, if none of the
                other attribute values fit use <userinput>unknown</userinput>. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <p>In the examples below, all the places should be tagged according to our place
                directives.</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;LOCATION
                RELATIONTO=&quot;moved&quot;&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;1829&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;AE&apos;s
                family moved to Bosworth in Leicestershire
                &lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;.&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/LOCATION&gt; &lt;LOCATION
                RELATIONTO=Lived&gt;&lt;Div2&gt;&lt;shortProse&gt;&lt;p&gt; During VA&apos;s
                childhood, she lived alternately in the fashionable heart of London and at the
                family&apos;s holiday home at Winterton in Norfolk.
                &lt;/&gt;&lt;/&gt;&lt;/&gt;&lt;/LOCATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;LOCATION
                RELATIONTO=travelled&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;8 July
                1918&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;SB sailed for New
                York.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;She then travelled across the USA
                to Berkeley, supporting herself with various jobs, and spending time in Radnor,
                Pennsylvania, in Chicago, and in
                Colorado.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/LOCATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;LOCATION RELATIONTO=&quot;migrated&quot;&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;
                &lt;DATE&gt;1924&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;DB migrated with D. H. Lawrence and
                &lt;NAME STANDARD=Lawrence, Frieda&gt;Frieda&lt;/NAME&gt;to found a Utopian
                community at Taos, New
                Mexico.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;/LOCATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>&lt;LOCATION
                RELATIONTO=&quot;visited&quot;&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;September
                1825&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;JWC visited Carlyle&apos;s family at
                Hoddam.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;/LOCATION&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Because this required attribute is attached to the <term keyref="div1">DIV1</term>
                content element of location, you will often have to insert multiple location
                elements to select the appropriate attribute.</p><p> Do not use
                    <userinput>visited</userinput> for long travels in which visiting anyone was
                incidental.</p><p> You may include multiple geographical movements of the same kind
                in one location element (for example, various travels at different times and to
                different places). Use the attribute <term keyref="unknown">UNKNOWN</term> if the
                    <term keyref="location">LOCATION</term> kind is unclear.</p><p> If Location is
                used with <userinput>lived</userinput>, it should where possible be given some kind
                of date range (e.g. if she lived in Italy, you should provide the beginning and end
                dates if possible). If dates are uncertain, don’t tag them. If you want to enter a
                    <term keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term> for the beginning of her
                residence somewhere but say that she lived there for the rest of her life, you might
                choose either a <userinput>moved</userinput> or <userinput>lived</userinput>
                attribute value. Sometimes the choice of either <userinput>Lived</userinput> or
                    <userinput>Moved</userinput> may be equally valid.</p><p> To the best of your
                ability, try to include major and significant moves in a person's life as <term
                    keyref="chron-struct">CHRONSTRUCT</term>s. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What's the difference between travelled and visited?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> The difference is one of degree and purpose. If she travels across
                the continent or journeys through Africa, use <userinput>travel</userinput>. But if
                she travels to London to spend the season with her cousins, then use visited.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
