<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="religion">
    <glossterm>RELIGION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>RELIGION is one of the issues (along with
                SEXUALITY, RACEANDETHNICITY, LANGUAGE, CLASS, and NATIONALITY) we have defined as
                significant in discussing the CULTURALFORMATION of a writer (in the BIOGRAPHY
                section of her entry). This DIV1 content element captures discussions of her
                RELIGION as an identity, as an issue in her life and her religious beliefs and
                affiliations; it makes a space to elaborate on the basic, defining DENOMINATION with
                attention to the significance in a life of belief or of seeking belief. We are
                interested in the effect of a religious upbringing on a woman writer and emphasize
                the inclusion of her family's DENOMINATION in a CULTURALFORMATION element, sometimes
                also within a RELIGION element to capture discussion or elaboration, whether or not
                she practised that religion for her life. We are interested in women's relationships
                with institutions and therefore wish to capture in this element information
                regarding religious institutions. We are also interested in the crucial role
                religious movements have had in women's writing, particularly in the early modern
                periods: users will wish to be able to trace the influence of Quakerism, for
                example, on women's writing and lives.</p>
            <p>If her religion cannot be discussed in isolation from the other elements available
                within CULTURALFORMATION, do not use a RELIGION element but include a DENOMINATION
                element to capture her religious background. The element RELIGION can be used to
                capture both general overviews of her religion (eg., <q>She was raised a Catholic
                    and remained devout her entire life</q>) and specific religious events (e.g.
                    <q>1975 She converted to Catholicism.</q>) Use multiple RELIGION elements to
                capture information about developments in her ongoing religious life in the
                appropriate chronological order. Do not include the whole discussion of her
                religious life within the opening CULTURALFORMATION tag if it involves extensive
                discussion out of chronological order. </p>
            <p>The related content sub-element DENOMINATION can be used without the RELIGION
                element, just as the other sub-elements appropriate to the discussion of cultural
                formation - CLASS, ETHNICITY, GENDER, <term keyref="geog-heritage"
                    >GEOGHERITAGE</term>, <term keyref="language">LANGUAGE</term>, <term
                    keyref="national-heritage">NATIONALHERITAGE</term>, <term keyref="nationality"
                    >NATIONALITY</term>, <term keyref="political-affiliation"
                    >POLITICALAFFILIATION</term>, <term keyref="race-colour">RACECOLOUR</term>, and
                    <term keyref="sexual-identity">SEXUALIDENTITY</term>, can be used with or
                without a broader sub-element (<term keyref="class-issue">CLASSISSUE</term>
                etc.).</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;RELIGION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;SM
                broke away from her family&apos;s faith and became an idealistic
                &lt;DENOMINATION&gt;agnostic&lt;/DENOMINATION&gt; before her
                marriage.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/RELIGION&gt;&lt;/CULTURALFORMATION&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;CULTURALFORMATION&gt;&lt;RELIGION&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;RT
                was originally a &lt;Denomination&gt;Baptist&lt;/&gt; and was converted to
                &lt;DENOMINATION&gt;Quakerism&lt;/DENOMINATION&gt; by James Nayler. She remained
                loyal to Nayler, even after he was disgraced and condemned by George Fox. RT
                organized the first women&apos;s meetings of the Quakers in London. She was also the
                only woman to attend regularly the Six Weeks Meeting, which was held in her home,
                and the London Meeting of
                Ministers.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/RELIGION&gt;&lt;/CULTURALFORMATION&gt;
            </codeblock>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
