<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="research-note">
    <glossterm>RESEARCHNOTE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Available throughout the textbase, this
                element is not to be confused with <term keyref="">SCHOLARNOTE</term> that will be
                readable by end users. RESEARCHNOTE contents will be seen only by the eyes of
                Orlandians. Contains comments from one team member to another; which should be
                prefaced by initials of the writer, and which are not visible in delivery. An
                Orlandian writing a new entry will may leave research notes for or receive them from
                another who is checking or revising; these can be deleted once implemented or
                decided against. Retain only notes that may be useful downstream, like <q>exhaustive
                    search for firm date reveals nothing</q> or <q>recommended visual for this
                    writer</q>. (Research notes containing the word “visual” are clues to project of
                illustrating Orlando.)</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>If you encounter research notes that refer to completed actions of negligible
                importance, feel free to delete them. However, you will want to retain research
                notes that say things like <q>this is a typo/no it's not</q> because they may save
                us a step later on. Retain research notes that have substantive information or
                queries about sources or research processes. If in doubt, leave it in.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
