<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="rresponses">
    <glossterm>RRESPONSES</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This element, available in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">RECEPTION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>addresses reactions to the literary work, the oeuvre in general, or
                the writer's role as an author/artist. It should enclose a whole sentence or more.
                It has no mandatory or optional sub-elements, but three optional attributes:
                responseType, Formality, and genderedResponse. ResponseType has the values of
                "initial," "recent," and "re-evaluation." Formality has the values of "formal" and
                "informal." GenderedResponse has the values of "genderedYes," "genderedNo," and
                "adfeminam." In practice used mostly for reviews w attribute value Formal and for
                comment in letters etc. w attribute Informal. Generalizations (“reviews were
                overwhelmingly favourable”) can be used as well as more specific info. A single use
                of this tag can encompass several distinct or contradictory opinions, so long as the
                attribute values are the same. Fill in the keyref attributes once glossentry topics
                for the specified elements exist (use the id attribute on the glossentry
                element.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> &amp;lt;rResponses formality=formal genderedResponse=genderedNo&gt;Joanna Baillie
                was criticized for her lack of stage-craft by Elizabeth
                Inchbald.&amp;lt;/&gt;&amp;lt;rResponses formality=formal genderedResponse=genderedNo&gt;Djuna
                Barnes&apos;s literary reputation was given a significant boost by Joseph Frank&apos;s
                critical analysis in The Sewanee Review, citing her book as an outstanding example
                of spatial rather than linear narrative.&amp;lt; </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div> </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
