<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="rs">
    <glossterm>RS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>The RS element, available everywhere
                throughout the textbase from Div1 level down, is a general-purpose name element for
                all non-personal, non-geographical names, names that merit tagging for either
                display purposes or for search and retrieval, but that are not adequately covered by
                the <term keyref="name">NAME</term>, <term keyref="orgname">ORGNAME</term>, <term
                    keyref="place">PLACE</term>, or <term keyref="title">TITLE</term> elements.
                Encloses the word or words of the name only. Available throughout the system, it has
                no attributes. Used for names of objects which have names, e.g. ships, locomotives,
                space capsules.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Examples</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;RS&gt;Mayflower&lt;/RS&gt;
&lt;RS&gt;Concorde&lt;/RS&gt;
&lt;RS&gt;Spirit of St Louis&lt;/RS&gt;
&lt;RS&gt;Hindenburg&lt;/RS&gt;
&lt;RS&gt;Orient Express&lt;/RS&gt;
&lt;RS&gt;Edsel&lt;/RS&gt;
&lt;RS&gt;Sputnik 2&lt;/RS&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p dir="ltr">Do not tag the names of wars, military campaigns, legislation, or any other
                events with RS. Do not tag the names of mountains, mountain regions, lakes, rivers,
                or other geographic features with RS. These examples are Regions.</p><p>Question:
                How do I tag paintings, films, and musical scores?</p><p>Answer: Use the <term
                    keyref="title">TITLE</term> element: <term keyref="monographic"
                    >MONOGRAPHIC</term> for operas, musical scores, albums, exhibitions, and films,
                    <term keyref="analytic">ANALYTIC</term> for songs (which may be part of a larger
                collection), and individual paintings and drawings.</p></div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
