<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="school">
    <glossterm>SCHOOL</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This content sub-element, available only
                within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>, can record either the specific name or a description of an
                educational institution. Its attributes are <term keyref="reg">REG</term>, <term
                    keyref="institution">INSTITUTION</term> (capturing type of school), <term
                    keyref="institution-level">INSTITUTIONLEVEL</term> (from primary to
                post-secondary), <term keyref="religious">RELIGIOUS</term> (to identify schools
                teaching a particular faith), and <term keyref="student-body">STUDENTBODY</term>
                (with attributes <term keyref="co-ed">CO-ED</term> and <term keyref="single-sex"
                    >SINGLESEX</term>). Encloses name of institution (Ilminster Grammar School; St
                Anne’s College,, Oxford University) or description if no name is available (a
                convent school, a short-lived typing school). Should be used in combination with
                    <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> for institutions prominent enough to be
                potentially named elsewhere in the system, but not for those unlikely ever to be
                mentioned again (Miss Brodie’s Academy for Young Ladies).</p><p dir="ltr">Attribute
                    <term keyref="reg">REG</term> on <term keyref="school">SCHOOL</term> allows you
                to express the name of the school in a standard form if you have been unable to do
                in your prose, and is useful for long-established schools that have changed their
                names. Colleges at collegiate universities take college name, double comma,
                university name (Trinity College,, University of Toronto). A few ancient
                universities named for places take the form without <q>of</q>: Oxford
                University.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>VW received her BA from <SCHOOL INSTITUTIONLEVEL="post-secondary">Cambridge University</SCHOOL>. WP's early education included governesses and <SCHOOL INSTITUTION="day-school">dayschools</SCHOOL>. She also attended <SCHOOL>Wycombe Abbey School</SCHOOL> 
and <SCHOOL>St Leonard's School</SCHOOL>.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p dir="ltr">In the above example, the name of the dayschool is not known but it should
                be tagged with the appropriate attributes. Wycombe Abbey and St Leonard's are
                well-known girls’ schools. The Orlando textbase supplies details on the first, but
                reveals that the second was a name borne by several schools, which therefore needs
                its location given if possible as well as attributes supplied.</p><p dir="ltr">All
                identifiable insitutions ALSO require an <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> tag.
                You will not need to use <term keyref="org-name">ORGNAME</term> when referring to a
                dayschool with no known proper name. All universities should be given an attribute
                for <term keyref="institution-level">INSTITUTIONLEVEL</term> with post-secondary
                marked off. If all you know is what kind of school she attended (for example,
                    <q>boarding school</q>) but not the name of the specific institution, include it
                in a school tag with the appropriate attributes marked. Try to ensure all
                appropriate attributes are filled in, using the tagger’s best judgement if evidence
                is thin. (n.b. Oxbridge colleges that had years as <term keyref="single-sex"
                    >SINGLESEX</term>) (male) are now <term keyref="co-ed">CO-ED</term>.)</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
