<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="self-defined">
    <glossterm>SELF-DEFINED</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Self-defined is an attribute attached to
                all identity categories within CulturalFormation (<menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term>BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term>CULTURALFORMATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>). Its purpose is to distinguish between people who place themselves
                within an identity category (e.g., "Jeannette Winterson identifies as lesbian") and
                those whom we place in that category though they themselves did not (e.g., "While
                she denied being a lesbian, she maintained close relationships with women throughout
                her life"). This attribute acknowledges the importance of personal, political and
                historical placements of one's own subject position; it assumes that identities are
                not simply labels we assign to other people but shifting categories which we both
                place ourselves within, and, in which history places us.</p><p dir="ltr"
                >Self-defined is an optional attribute available with Class, Denomination,
                Ethnicity, Gender, GeogHeritage, NationalHeritage, Nationality, RaceColour, and
                SexualIdentity. It has attribute values of "selfYes," "selfNo," "selfUnknown."</p><p
                dir="ltr">Attribute Self-Defined on Nationality and other identity sub-tags within
                CulturalFormation: Someone born a Briton but raised in Canada might identify with
                either nationality or neither, or might self-identify as mixed-race but be
                categorized as black.</p><p dir="ltr">Attribute Self-Defined on Class:
                Self-definition doesn’t have to be overt statement, but a generalized acceptance of
                that category. </p><p dir="ltr">Attribute Self-Defined on Denomination: Use value
                SelfYes if there is general recognition of her faith even without a statement from
                her.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> VA had many &amp;lt;sexualIdentity self-DEFINED=&quot;SelfYes&quot;&gt;lesbian&amp;lt;/&gt;
                relationships during her lifetime.She identified strongly with her &amp;lt;raceColour
                self-DEFINED=&quot;selfYes&quot;&gt;Jewish&amp;lt;/&gt; heritage.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>The selfNo value is best employed in situations where the author actively repudiated
                the class or race (or whatever) attributed to her.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
