<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="separation">
    <glossterm>SEPARATION</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Sub-tag available in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term>BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term>FAMILY</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>, but only within <uicontrol><term>MARRIAGE</term></uicontrol> (n.b.
                not available in Member tags within Family, i.e. tag only if it’s the entry subject
                who is separated, not a relative or friend). Separation captures information
                concerning the marital conditions of the subject of your biography. Use this element
                to indicate that a woman separated legally or officially from her husband without a
                divorce. (Sometimes the <uicontrol><term>DIVORCE</term></uicontrol> tag may be used
                later of the same relationship.)</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> &amp;lt;separation&gt;Fanny Kemble signed a formal separation agreement,
                after disputes over child custody and Butler&apos;s harsh conditions for
                support.&amp;lt;/&gt; &amp;lt;separation&gt;ALB separated from her husband in
                response to her family&apos;s increasing entreaties to consider her own safety,
                realising that she was unable to help him, and that her presence worsened his
                condition. She felt strongly that Rochement&apos;s violence was caused by illness.
                In letters to friends, ALB stated that she felt no less affection for her husband,
                and she was most reluctant and sad to separate from him.&amp;lt;/&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Only use for the separation of the person whose biography you are writing. Do NOT use
                for parents, cousins or any other family member. Using this element denotes that the
                subject of the document was separated from her/his spouse.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
