<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="styled">
    <glossterm>STYLED</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Styled is a sub-element within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">PERSONNAME</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>, that refers to titles which are called courtesy titles. For example,
                peers’ eldest sons (and their wives) often possess a title by virtue of their
                temporary position as heir. Titles of this kind do not give a seat in the House of
                Lords. Use Styled for all those people whose title results from their father's
                title, e.g. Lady Mary, Lady Jane, Lady Florence Dixie, as opposed to Lady Smith and
                Lady Jones. This tag has attributes <term keyref="">REG</term> (in case of variant
                spelling) and <term keyref="">WROTEORPUBLISHEDASYES</term>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Do not spend too much time worrying about whether a name is titled or styled. Consult
                on particular cases; check the textbase to see if this person is already mentioned.
                Do not confuse this element with <term keyref="">SELFCONSTRUCTED</term>. Styled does
                not refer to names she styled for herself; it is a particular type of noble
                title.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> May Sinclair chose this style of her given name, Mary Sinclair. Does
                this take STYLED tag?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> No. May Sinclair is a self-constructed name.</p></div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
