<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="subject">
    <glossterm>SUBJECT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>I.e. subject of study. This content
                sub-element in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>, generally encloses a word or phrase, and records areas of study
                which are significant to a writer's education. It has one attribute, <term
                    keyref="reg">REG</term>, to explain non-standard terms (<codeph>&lt;SUBJECT
                    REG="HISTORY”&gt;kings and queens of England&lt;/&gt;</codeph>). We are
                particularly interested in subjects which influenced her writing (for example, she
                studied archeology and her first novel was set at an archeological dig), classical
                language studies for women writers in the early period (recording the importance of
                ancient languages as a masculine domain, and the acquisition of translation skills),
                and other subjects which were non-traditional for women (for example, engineering).
                Tag reading and writing as subjects only during periods when they were remarkable.
                Be selective about subjects, depending on breadth of curriculum and how much
                information is available. Fill in the keyref attributes once glossentry topics for
                the specified elements exist (use the id attribute on the glossentry
            element.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> VA's father, horrified at her relationship with a young woman, sent her to a
                Domestic Training College at Eastbourne, to learn &lt;SUBJECT&gt;Domestic
                Economy&lt;/SUBJECT&gt;. Her mother ensured that SA was given a thorough education
                that included &lt;SUBJECT&gt;Latin&lt;/SUBJECT&gt;,
                &lt;SUBJECT&gt;mathematics&lt;/SUBJECT&gt;,
                &lt;SUBJECT&gt;philosophy&lt;/SUBJECT&gt;, and &lt;SUBJECT&gt;political
                economy&lt;/SUBJECT&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Only subjects which had a significant impact or were central to the person should be
                tagged. If her major in university was geography, or if she took a course in it
                which interested her particularly, then tag it; if she studied geography as part of
                a wide-ranging syllabus in secondary school, probably not. Use a separate subject
                tag for each subject specified. Do not put one tag around a phrase like <q>she
                    studied history, philosophy, and literature</q>. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
