<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="t-character-name">
    <glossterm>TCHARACTERNAME</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>TCHARACTERNAME, an element in the <term
                    keyref="writing">WRITING</term> section of entries, conceptually part of the
                    <term keyref="textual-features">TEXTUALFEATURES</term> component, allows us to
                tag the names of significant characters. It should contain only the character's
                name. It has no mandatory sub-elements, although you may want to use this in
                conjunction with the <term keyref="t-characterization">TCHARACTERIZATION</term>
                element and perhaps with the <term keyref="t-character-type/role"
                    >TCHARACTERTTYPE/ROLE</term> element. One optional attribute, <term keyref="reg"
                    >REG</term>, allows you to regularize the name of the character when the name is
                not otherwise clear in your text (e.g. adding either a first or last name to the
                other). The <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute here works the same way as the
                    <term keyref="reg">REG</term> attribute for <term keyref="name"
            >NAME</term>.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;TCHARACTERNAME&gt;Heathcliff&lt;/TCHARACTERNAME&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p><b>Not</b> to be confused with <term keyref="name">NAME</term>, meaning that of
                someone real, not fictional. In some cases of historical fiction, both tags might be
                called for. Do not tag the Marys and Johns in every novel; if you have a first name
                and last name, still don’t tag without considering first,<q> Is it worthwhile?</q>
                (Sometimes it is: fun to watch the gradual proliferation of fictional Emmas before
                Austen’s.) Use this tag whenever an identifiable character name merits recording.
                However, you should only apply it to characters created by the writer named in your
                document. If the author knowingly refers to a character in another writer's work,
                use the <term keyref="t-intertextuality">TINTERTEXTUALITY</term> element. Include
                the title of the originary text where possible and meaningful. For example,
                Christian Isobel Johnstone appropriates the name of Margaret Dods from a Walter
                Scott novel for one of her own characters, but if she merely based a character on
                his Dods you would tag “Margaret Dods” with <term keyref="t-intertextuality"
                    >TINTERTEXTUALITY</term> and not TCHARACTERNAME. </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
