<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="technique-type">
    <glossterm>TECHNIQUETYPE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This tag is located in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="writing">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="ttechniques">TTECHNIQUES</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. Its five allowable values are <term keyref="versification"
                    >VERSIFICATION</term>, <term keyref="non-standard-english"
                    >NONSTANDARDENGLISH</term>, <term keyref="diction">DICTION</term>
                <term keyref="imagery">IMAGERY</term>, and <term keyref="aural-effects"
                    >AURALEFFECTS</term>. <term keyref="versification">VERSIFICATION</term> applies
                to literary effects achieved by metre or stanza-form. <term keyref="diction"
                    >DICTION</term> applies to effects achieved by the choice and arrangement of
                words. Examples include the use of latinate, flowery, archaic, or affected language.
                    <term keyref="non-standard-english">NONSTANDARDENGLISH</term> applies to uses of
                eccentric or uneducated syntax, regional speech, or dialect. <term keyref="imagery"
                    >IMAGERY</term> refers to literary effects that rely on figures of speech such
                as personification, metaphor, or simile. <term keyref="aural-effects"
                    >AURALEFFECTS</term> captures writing that employs onomatopiea, alliteration,
                internal rhyme, or other techniques relying on audible features of language like
                plosives, sibilants, fricatives, etc. Fill in the keyref attributes once <term
                    keyref="gloss-entry">GLOSSENTRY</term> topics for the specified elements exist
                (use the <term keyref="id">ID</term> attribute on the <term keyref="gloss-entry"
                    >GLOSSENTRY</term> element).</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> &lt;TTECHNIQUES TECHNIQUETYPE=&quot;versification&quot;&gt;HY&apos;s
                favourite form was ballad metre.&lt;/TTECHNIQUES&gt; &lt;TTECHNIQUES
                TECHNIQUETYPE=&quot;non-standardEnglish&quot;&gt;JG&apos;s third novel differs from
                the first two in that the narrator uses patois.&lt;/TTECHNIQUES&gt; &lt;TTECHNIQUES
                TECHNIQUETYPE=&quot;imagery&quot;&gt;LK displayed an unusual fondness for heroic
                similes, inspired perhaps by her translations from Greek.&lt;/TTECHNIQUES&gt;
                &lt;TTECHNIQUES TECHNIQUETYPE=&quot;diction&quot;&gt;In her third poem, EPW
                attempted to imitate Elizabethan language. &lt;/TTECHNIQUES&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>In cases where the author uses a variety of techniques that you are discussing
                together, or if you are unsure of a literary technique, you may either leave this
                attribute unfilled or supply more than one tag with different attribute values.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
