<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="text">
    <glossterm>TEXT</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Located within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="education">EDUCATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>, this tag records texts significant in educational development, early
                reading matter which exerted a formative influence, rather than even major
                influences on her writing, if encountered in maturity.Such texts will probably not
                be entered here but within her Writing document. Encloses generally just a title or
                author name, but can enclose a phrase, e.g Greek myth and legend, or German fairy
                tales. </p>
            <p>This has one optional attribute, <term keyref="reg">REG</term> which allows you to
                standardize the name of the author or title of the book (either of which might be
                tagged as TEXT) in cases where you have been unable to do in the prose. Used for
                expanding or fully identifying either Name or Title: <codeph>&lt;TEXT
                    REG=&quot;Eliot, George”&gt;Eliot&lt;/TEXT&gt;, &lt;TEXT REG=&quot;The Mill on
                    the Floss&quot;&gt;Maggie Tulliver&lt;/TEXT&gt; &lt;div&gt;</codeph></p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> &lt;TEXT&gt;&lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;Monographic&quot;&gt;Old
                Testament&lt;/TITLE&gt;&lt;/TEXT&gt; and &lt;TEXT&gt;&lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;Monographic&quot;&gt;Paradise Lost&lt;/TITLE&gt;&lt;/TEXT&gt; by the
                age of six.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Title tag is mandatory around texts. </p><p>It is fine to tag commonly recognized
                names like Skakespeare or Milton as texts as well as names within the education
                element, but only do so if reading such an author carried real significance for the
                BWW. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Should Jane Eyre be entered as a text within Jean Rhys' <term
                    keyref="biography">BIOGRAPHY</term> because Wide Sargasso Sea is a rewriting of
                it? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> No. Jane Eyre will be tagged as <term
                    keyref="intertextuality">INTERTEXTUALITY</term> in <term keyref="writing"
                    >WRITING</term>.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
