<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="text-scope">
    <glossterm>TEXTSCOPE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="writing">WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade> only and always left empty; the attributes do the work. Used so far
                to tie a text to its listing in the Orlando bibl database. It sits immediately
                inside a div2, not enclosing the div2 but relating to the div2’s entire contents.
                (Two <term keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term>s or more may precede an interwoven
                discussion of two or more texts.) <term keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term> has two
                key attributes: <term keyref="d-bref">DBREF</term>, which contains the bibliography
                database number of the corresponding bibliography item in Orlando’s bibl database,
                and <term keyref="placeholder">PLACEHOLDER</term>, which contains a brief mention of
                the work under discussion and consists of the BWW's initials, a short title, and
                publication date. </p>
            <p>This element must be used in conjunction with a div2. You may not use it at the div1
                level. You do not need always to use a <term keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term>
                for each individual text you are discussing, or even for each text to which you
                devote an entire div2, though it is unusual not to do so. Use the <term
                    keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term> to demarcate discussions of texts of some
                significance. A useful rule of thumb is to consider whether you would enter this
                work in the bibliography database, and whether it ought to appear in the entry
                column Works By. If so, then use a textscope for your discussion. (This will insert
                it in the <term keyref="works-by">WORKSBY</term> tab.) Minor works that would not be
                entered in the bibliography database and do not need listing, also do not require a
                textscope.</p>
            <p>The <term keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term> is not the same as a heading (in fact
                it often directly repeats your heading). Instead, the <term keyref="text-scope"
                    >TEXTSCOPE</term> demarcates the main discussion of a text for
                searching/indexing purposes. If you follow a Link to a title, your Links screen will
                bear the words <q>Main mention in [name of entry subject]</q>. That main mention is
                the one marked by the <term keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term>. This tag is also
                used as a bibliographic pointer that will invisibly direct end-users to the
                bibliographic information about the text under discussion. The <term
                    keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term> tag will not appear in the reader's version
                of your document. It is an invisible tag for linking and searching purposes.
                Attribute <term keyref="placeholder">PLACEHOLDER</term> on <term keyref="text-scope"
                    >TEXTSCOPE</term>: Purely for internal use, to facilitate checking and to help
                catch error. (The <term keyref="d-bref">DBREF</term> attribute does the heavy
                lifting.) </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;TEXTSCOPE DBREF=&quot;103427&quot; PLACEHOLDER=&quot;JB, Poems,
                1790&quot;&gt;&lt;/TEXTSCOPE&gt; &lt;TEXTSCOPE DBREF=&quot;103464&quot;
                PLACEHOLDER=&quot;HB, The Mousiad, 1787&quot;&gt;&lt;/TEXTSCOPE&gt; &lt;TEXTSCOPE
                DBREF=&quot;103&quot; PLACEHOLDER=&quot;AC, The Magic Toyshop,
                1967&quot;&gt;&lt;/TEXTSCOPE&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Your TEXTSCOPE must be formatted as in the examples above, with the attributes filled
                in. <term keyref="d-bref">DBREF</term> must include the corresponding <term
                    keyref="d-bref">DBREF</term> number for the text under discussion. Be sure that
                you have chosen the <term keyref="bibliog-item">BIBLIOGITEM</term> for the same
                edition under discussion in <term keyref="writing">WRITING</term>. For example, if
                you have entered a <term keyref="text-scope">TEXTSCOPE</term> for a discussion of
                Joanna Baillie's Poems published in 1790, enter the dbref number for the <term
                    keyref="bibliog-item">BIBLIOGITEM</term> citing this original publication of her
                Poems and not the 1994 reprint of Poems, 1790. The <term keyref="placeholder"
                    >PLACEHOLDER</term> should include the authors initials, short title of the
                work, and publication year.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
