<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="title-type">
    <glossterm>TITLETYPE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>An attribute of <term keyref="title"
                    >TITLE</term> (mandatory), TITLETYPE indicates whether a title is a part of
                another work, an entire work, a journal, or a series. Use it throughout the
                textbase. It has the following values: <userinput>analytic</userinput> (article,
                poem, or other item published as part of a larger item);
                    <userinput>monographic</userinput> (book or collection, including both single
                volumes in a multi-volume work or the whole set of volumes);
                    <userinput>journal</userinput> (including magazines and newspapers, the entire
                publication; pieces in journal are <userinput>analytic</userinput>);
                    <userinput>series</userinput>; <userinput>unpublished</userinput>,
                including manuscripts and conference papers. (Dissertations have generally been
                classed as <userinput>monographic</userinput>.)</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;Timetables of
                History&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;Encyclopedia
                Britannica&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;journal&quot;&gt;Illustrated
                London News&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;journal&quot;&gt;New York
                Tribune&lt;/TITLE&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Every title that is tagged must be labelled with the TITLETYPE attribute for two
                purposes: searching and display. (A title with no attribute value will not be fitted
                with italics or quotes.)</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What exactly is a series? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> A group of
                independent monographs linked together by a shared series title. That is, the
                publisher has supplied a collective title apart from the individual title of each
                item. The individual items may or may not be numbered. Examples are Virago Modern
                Classics, Mothers of the Novel (published by Pandora), Olympia Press Traveller's
                Companion Series, Contemporary Authors, The Dictionary of Literary Biography,
                British Children's Writers, 1800-1880. If you are not sure whether or not something
                is a series title, check its full record in a library catalogue.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
