<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="title-page-title">
    <glossterm>TITLEPAGETITLE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p> A field available within <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. TITLEPAGETITLE is used in conjunction with the Standard title. It
                captures the full title of a work as it appears in your bibliographic source, often
                including a subtitle.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>We do not need to record all title-page titles without exception; we want to record
                the long titles of important texts, or long titles which have interesting content.
                Seventeenth-century titles can be as long as an exhaustive plot summary: it is ok to
                end with an ellipsis. The Title Page Title of <i>Millenium Hall</i> is <i>A
                    Description of Millenium Hall and the Country Adjacent Together with the
                    Characters of the Inhabitants and Such Historical Anecdotes and Reflections as
                    May Excite in the Reader Proper Sentiments of Humanity, and Lead the Mind to the
                    Love of Virtue</i>. Because this is a key text in the history of women's
                writing, we record the entire title-page title. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Should we record title page titles which indicate the genre of a work, such
                as A Play, A Poem, A Novel? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> In general, no. This is not a hard-and-fast rule, however, and if you
                think that this kind of a subtitle is useful for disambiguation, or conveys
                important information, or is interesting in some way, then you can record it. For
                example, the title-page title of <i>Jane Eyre</i> is <i>Jane Eyre: An
                    Autobiography</i>, an interesting assertion about the genre of the novel. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Should we record the entire title page title of early works, or can
                we abbreviate? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> Please feel free to abbreviate very lengthy title-page titles by means
                of ellipsis. There are no rules for this; it will be up to you to decide how much of
                the title you will transcribe. For instance, <i>An Essay on the Art of Ingeniously
                    Tormenting, With Proper Rules for the Exercise of That Pleasant Art</i> ends
                here in the modern edition but continues in the original; <i>An Essay to Revive the
                    Ancient Education of Gentlewomen, In Religion, Manners, Arts and Tongues</i>
                ends after nine words in a modern ed., but continues even further in the original.
                In each of these cases Orlando gives more than the recent editors, capturing
                interesting evidence of the authors’ purposes..</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
