<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="title">
    <glossterm>TITLE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Title is a core tag, available throughout
                the textbase from the div1 level on down, in those places where typing is allowed
                (i. e. headings, chronProse, and shortProse). It encloses the title of a literary
                and other work of art: convention is that an exhibition or novel, etc, takes <term
                    keyref="">MONOGRAPHIC</term> attribute, whereas a single painting or poem, etc,
                takes <term keyref="">ANALYTIC</term>. If a title includes a date, do not use <term
                    keyref="">DATE</term> tag. <b>Do not</b> include any punctuation in the TITLE
                tag that is not part of the title itself. The TITLE element encloses the title of a
                work, whether article, book, journal (newspaper, magazine), series, or unpublished.
                Attributes are <term keyref="">REG</term> (to record standard form as given in bibl
                dbase; also in case of misspelling in source), <term keyref="">REND</term> (which
                can over-ride the style sheet and display a title without italic or quotes), and
                    <term keyref="">TITLETYPE</term>, which indicates whether the work is an
                article, book, journal, series, or unpublished material.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;The Martyr, A
                Drama&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;Sense and
                Sensibility&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;analytic&quot;&gt;Sonnet
                CXVI&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;analytic&quot;&gt;Metaphor of Metonymy?
                The Question of Essentialism in Cixous&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;journal&quot;&gt;English Studies in Canada&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;journal&quot;&gt;The New York Times&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;series&quot;&gt;Mothers of the Novel&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;series&quot;&gt;Contemporary Authors&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;unpublished&quot;&gt;Elinor and Marianne&lt;/TITLE&gt; &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;unpublished&quot;&gt;Lady Susan&lt;/TITLE&gt; </codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>If you are writing about an author's work before it became a published text, you may
                use the attribute that is appropriate for the title at that point in its evolution.
                This means that you can use the attribute <term keyref="">UNPUBLISHED</term> if you
                are writing about a manuscript version of a book that was later published. Of
                course, you would only choose to do this in a situation where there's something
                substantive to be said about the work in its unpublished state. A TITLE must be
                tagged with its <term keyref="">TITLETYPE</term> attribute filled in every time it
                appears in your prose. If it is not, it will not display properly. However, do not
                tag titles in a <term keyref="">BIBCIT</term>. When tagging a series TITLE in your
                prose, do not include the series number as part of the title. <codeph>&lt;TITLE
                    TITLETYPE=&quot;series&quot;&gt;Olympia Press Traveller&apos;s
                    Companion&lt;/TITLE&gt;> Series no. 105</codeph>. You will be able to enter the
                volume and series numbers in your bibliographic citation. Gift books and annuals
                should be treated as series. Paintings, films, and musical scores have titles. Films
                are monographic titles. Songs that are part of a larger collection or CD are, like
                individual poems, analytic. If you are naming an entire musical score or spoken word
                recording or entire album, treat that title as monographic. For further guidelines
                consult the MLA handbook.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Further Examples</u>
            <codeblock>Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant painted &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;dining room with panels&lt;/TITLE&gt; at
                Penns-in-the-Rocks, Withyham, Sussex. Leslie Howard starred in two British films,
                &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;The First of the Few&lt;/TITLE&gt;
                and &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;49th Parallel&lt;/TITLE&gt;.
                Ethel Smyth&apos;s opera &lt;TITLE TITLETYPE=&quot;monographic&quot;&gt;The
                Boatswain&apos;s Mate&lt;/TITLE&gt; was played at Shaftesbury Theatre in London.
                Florrie Ford, a music-hall artist, endorsed the song &lt;TITLE
                TITLETYPE=&quot;analytic&quot;&gt;It&apos;s a long way to Tipperary&lt;/TITLE&gt;,
                making it extremely popular.</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Relation to the Bibliography Database</u>
            <p>Every title discussed or cited in the has a biblio entry to which it should be
                linked, so unless the title and biblio entry are exactly the same, the <term
                    keyref="">REG</term> attribute must link the title to the database entry. To
                make the title agree, it must be EXACTLY the same in every respect (capitalisation,
                punctuation, spacing etc) as the title in the Std Title box in the bibliographic
                database. If this is not possible, then the <term keyref="">REG</term> attribute
                must agree with the Alt Title or the Title Page Title in the biblio entry. Do a
                bibliography search for any new title in the published Orlando. Identical titles
                need discriminating, with an Alt form in the bibliography and a Reg attribute in the
                entry. So we have, in Mary Barber entry, MB, Poems on Several Occasions, 1734; in
                the Jane Brereton entry, JB, Poems on Several Occasions, 1744; in the Elizabeth
                Carter entry, EC, Poems on Several Occasion, 1762, etc. All these are <term
                    keyref="">REG</term> attribute values; in the bibliog database the same entry in
                the Alt box needs to have the author name spelled out instead of initials. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> My title begins with the word "the": should I place "the" in the
                title tag? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> If "the" is part of the title, it should be
                included in the title tag in natural reading order. Sometimes it is not easy to
                determine whether the "the" is in fact part of the title. You can find out this
                information, by checking the Orando textbase, or the title page or the masthead of
                newspapers or a library catalogue record.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Do I include the "The" when referring to The Times (of London) and
                how do I distinguish it from the New York Times? </p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> For our project, we've chosen "Times" as the <term keyref=""
                    >REG</term> form of the London title (a bad choice, but that’s what we decided).
                So use “The Times” in your prose (since that title is official), but fill in the
                attribute value without the “The”. The <term keyref="">REG</term> for the "New York
                Times" and "Los Angeles Times" are similar: no “The”.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> How do I tag government documents? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> Most
                government publications are authored and published by the government that produces
                them. Most government titles should be tagged as <term keyref="">MONOGRAPHIC</term>.
                For more information consult the MLA handbook.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> What attribute is the right one when tagging a government document?
                    </p><p><b>Answer:</b> If the document is unpublished, use <term keyref=""
                    >UNPUBLISHED</term>. If published, use <term keyref="">MONOGRAPHIC</term>.</p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Do I tag a title if it appears in a bitCit? </p><p><b>Answer:</b>
                No. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> Do I tag a title in a WorksCited List? </p><p><b>Answer:</b> No. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> I am writing about a manuscript draft of a book that was later
                published. Should I use the attribute for <term keyref="">MONOGRAPHIC</term> or
                    <term keyref="">UNPUBLISHED</term>
            </p><p><b>Answer:</b>: use whichever attribute is appropriate to the context:
                Unpublished before the book’s publication and <term keyref="">MONOGRAPHIC</term> afterwards. </p>
            <p><b>Question:</b> I want to tag a book of the Bible. How do I do it? </p><p><b>Answer:</b>The Bible is
                tagged as <term keyref="">MONOGRAPHIC</term>. In the attributes, in the "rend" field, type normal. The
                books of the Bible (Genesis, etc) are analytic, but the "rend" attribute should also
                read "normal". </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
