<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="t-theme-topic">
    <glossterm>TTHEMETOPIC</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Belonging in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term>WRITING</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term>TEXTUALFEATURES</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>, TTHEMETOPIC is a very flexible tag. It has no controlled vocabulary
                associated with it, but can contain any information. It may enclose much more than a
                single word; may record central themes, side issues in a text, or objects of
                observation or discussion. Place tags, for instance, often appear within TTHEMETOPIC
                tags in accounts of travel literature, and <term keyref="">NAME</term> tags within
                accounts of biography and criticism. (Accounts of place as it operates in fiction
                use a <term keyref="">TSETTINGPLACE</term> tag.) This element applies to both theme
                and topic. Theme is the central idea in a text stated either directly or indirectly;
                topic applies to interesting subjects appearing in a work that might not aspire to
                the status of a "theme". The tag is useful in describing examples of genres such as
                educational or non-fictional texts. It has no mandatory or optional sub-elements or
                attributes.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;TTHEMETOPIC&gt;forced marriage&lt;/TTHEMETOPIC&gt; &lt;TTHEMETOPIC&gt;
                Oriental, African, pastoral, medieval, and contemporary subjects&lt;/TTHEMETOPIC&gt;
                &lt;TTHEMETOPIC&gt; Colonial oppression&lt;/TTHEMETOPIC&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p>Theme differs from motif in being less tightly defined, generally informing an
                entire literary work. Topic can be used if a woman wrote a book about cooking, a
                non-fiction work on stitchery, or an educational text which uses the Napoleonic wars
                for its examples. A novel might equally dwell on the topic of cookery or war, or it
                might have military courage or women’s domestic involvement as a theme.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
