<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="violence">
    <glossterm>VIOLENCE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>One of the sixteen structuring big-bucket
                content tags in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. Defined as integral to mapping a woman's life.
                It has no attributes or sub-elements. It is placed in a document according to the
                broadly chronological sequence of life-events. It represents an early decision by
                the Orlando team not to separate different kinds of violence by different encoding,
                but to encompass together institutional, marital, and other violence (marketplace
                whippings for Quaker preachers, wartime bombing, and family abuse). Record all
                instances of physical, sexual, and undue emotional abuse within this element,
                whether the person was the victim or the perpetrator. We are particularly interested
                in the effects of violence against women on the history of women's writing and the
                historical, social and political issues surrounding violence against women. This
                element is not reserved for actual acts of violence, but can include a discussion of
                the effects, short- and long-term, of exposure to violence. In some cases available
                data may need to be divided between Violence and some other element, e.g. Family or
                Location or Politics or Health.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock> &lt;VIOLENCE&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;PEG refers to the
                rather regular blows from her mother as a part of her education, but one which she,
                obviously, does not condone. She cites the ill effects of such parenting on herself
                and her
                siblings.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/VIOLENCE&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;VIOLENCE&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;DATE&gt;29 July
                1901&lt;/DATE&gt;&lt;/CHRONSTRUCT&gt;&lt;CHRONPROSE&gt;Walter Chapman, the mentally
                unstable postmaster at Grayshott, murdered his wife Emily, not long after FT ceased
                working at the Grayshott Post
                Office.&lt;/CHRONPROSE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/VIOLENCE&gt;</codeblock><codeblock>
                &lt;VIOLENCE&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;When FT worked in Grayshott,
                she initially had a room in the living quarters behind the post office, where the
                Chapmans lived, and overheard loud domestic strife between Walter and his wife. She
                was also present when Walter fired a revolver at imaginary burglars, and spoke
                wildly of enemies, with whom he thought FT was in league, but she left the employ of
                the post office before the murder occurred. FT was deeply disturbed on reading
                reports of the murder, feeling that if she had reported Walter&apos;s violent
                behaviour to the police, she might have prevented Emily&apos;s death. Given the
                current attitudes to marriage and domestic violence in the village, she knew that
                the police would likely be unsympathetic and unwilling to interfere in domestic
                strife but felt that she bore some portion of the blame for Emily&apos;s death by
                having said nothing.&lt;/VIOLENCE&gt;&lt;/DIV2&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/P&gt;
            </codeblock>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
