<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="wealth">
    <glossterm>Wealth</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>Wealth is a Div1 content element, one of
                the 16 major biography elements defined as integral to mapping a woman's life. It
                has no content sub-elements or attributes. This element should be used in a position
                that makes chronological sense in the flow of the document, and may be used more
                than once to record changes in her money situation. It captures information about a
                writer's financial standing, more precise and detailed than what is conveyed within
                the Class and Occupation elements. We are particularly interested in whether or not
                her finances provided the material conditions necessary for writing. Information
                concerning inheritance, unearned income, tax matters, spouse’s income, pensions and
                personal financial disasters should be captured here, but not any income directly
                derived from literary activity, which belongs in the <term keyref="writing"
                    >WRITING</term> doc.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;WEALTH&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;In
                &lt;DATE&gt;1825&lt;/DATE&gt;, AG was offered a pension of ¥100 per annum from
                &lt;NAME STANDARD=&quot;George IV, King&quot;&gt;George IV&lt;/NAME&gt;. At first
                she rejected this as too little, but then accepted
                it.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;/&gt;&lt;/WEALTH&gt;
                &lt;WEALTH&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;P&gt;GH began to play a major role
                in providing her family&apos;s income after the publication of her first novel. She
                continued to support not only her mother and brothers but also her husband while he
                was reading for the
                Bar.&lt;/P&gt;&lt;/SHORTPROSE&gt;&lt;DIV2&gt;&lt;/WEALTH&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>We should try to standardize amounts, when possible, using terms such as <q>per annum</q>
                as opposed to the abbreviation p.a.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Troubleshooting</u>
            <p><b>Question:</b> If she married into a wealthy family and this changed her financial status, does this event belong in wealth, class, or family?</p><p>
                <b>Answer:</b> See Class. This needs your judgement, but is probably a case where the same fact needs more than one mention, from different aspects.
            </p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
