<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="woman-gender-issue">
    <glossterm>WOMAN-GENDERISSUE</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This optional attribute is available in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">POLITICALAFFILIATION</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It designates whether or not a person's political engagement
                involves a specific gender issue. This tag has three mutually exclusive sibling
                attributes, <term keyref="activism">ACTIVISM</term>, <term keyref="involvement"
                    >INVOLVEMENT</term>, and <term keyref="membership">MEMBERSHIP</term>; it may be
                used in conjunction with any of them. It has attribute values of
                    <userinput>GenderYes</userinput> and <userinput>GenderNo</userinput>. Since we
                are interested in women's writing from the perspective of an analysis of gender, we
                wish to record all political involvement regarding gender issues. Use this attribute
                whenever the political organization, activity, or affiliation you are describing
                involves women's issues or female political subjectivity (identification as women)
                very broadly defined. This includes a petition by women even if the subject of the
                petition was not gender-specific, as well as more obvious issues such as suffrage,
                marriage law, female employment, etc. A gender issue does not necessarily and
                exclusively refer to feminist issues but could include such woman-specific
                activities as anti-feminist organizations or anti-choice activists. </p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>In Crick, Northamptonshire, SM took up &lt;POLITICALAFFILIATION
                ACTIVISM=&quot;activistYes&quot;
                WOMAN-GENDERISSUE=&quot;genderYes&quot;&gt;suffragette
                activism&lt;/POLITICALAFFILIATION&gt;, selling the pamphlet Votes for Women in the
                street. Her work was supported by her husband, but caused scandal in their old-style
                rural parish.</codeblock>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
