<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="works-cited">
    <glossterm>WORKSCITED</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>WORKSCITED is an informal but complete
                list of sources used and cited in an entry document, positioned at the end of that
                document, before <term keyref="biogprose">BIOGRPROSE</term>. Each text is to be
                placed within a separate <term keyref="source">SOURCE</term> tag. You should ensure
                that all these sources are also entered in the bibliography database. Contents of
                this element are not visible in Delivery or the published textbase. It has fallen
                out of use, but may be resumed.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Here's how your worksCited should look: Wyatt-Brown, Anne M. Barbara Pym: A Critical
                Biography. 1992. A period goes after the author name (which is inverted); a short
                title is used (assuming that the full title is recorded in the bibliography
                database) without a title tag and followed by a period; a period also appears after
                the year. Provide enough bibliographic information so that the source can be easily
                identified: for example, be certain to specify which edition you are using if a work
                has been reprinted in several different editions. Full bibliographic information
                should be entered in the bibliography database.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u><term keyref="work-status">WORKSTATUS</term>, <term keyref="work-value"
                    >WORKVALUE</term></u>
            <p>Attributes on the Responsibility tag hitherto used during the checkin process to
                chart workflow. See under <term keyref="responsibility">RESPONSIBILITY</term>,
                above. They work to mark and record the process the document is undergoing and the
                stage reached in that process.</p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
