<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
<?xml-model href="urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:glossentry.rng" schematypens="http://purl.oclc.org/dsdl/schematron"?>
<glossentry id="wrote-or-published-as">
    <glossterm>WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <div><u>Definition, Placement, Relationships</u><p>This attribute can be found in <menucascade>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">BIOGRAPHY</term></uicontrol>
                    <uicontrol><term keyref="">PERSONNAME</term></uicontrol>
                </menucascade>. It has sub-elements <term keyref="birth-name">BIRTHNAME</term>,
                    <term keyref="professional-title">PROFESSIONALTITLE</term>, <term
                    keyref="indexed">INDEXED</term>, <term keyref="married">MARRIED</term>, <term
                    keyref="nickname">NICKNAME</term>, <term keyref="pseudonym">PSEUDONYM</term>,
                    <term keyref="religious-name">RELIGIOUSNAME</term>, <term keyref="royal"
                    >ROYAL</term>, <term keyref="self-constructed">SELFCONSTRUCTED</term>, <term
                    keyref="styled">STYLED</term>, <term keyref="titled">TITLED</term>}. (Note:
                attribute WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS on <term keyref="pseudonym">PSEUDONYM</term> should
                always be Yes.) This attribute will allow us to track all the different names women
                writers published under: authors have sometimes used a nickname or married name on
                title-pages, though most published under their standard name or pseudonym(s). This
                attribute works in conjunction with the authorname in the bibliography to link the
                author’s standard name with the name a text was published under. It has an attribute
                value of <q>WrotePublishedAsYes</q> to be selected when the name entered is the name
                used for publication.</p></div>
        <div>
            <u>Example</u>
            <codeblock>&lt;MARRIED
                WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;wrotePublishedAsYes&quot;&gt;Ferguson&lt;/MARRIED&gt;&lt;DATAITEM&gt;.
                &lt;PSEUDONYM WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;WrotePublishedAsYes&quot;&gt;Eunice
                Buckley&lt;/PSEUDONYM&gt;</codeblock>
        </div>
        <div>
            <u>Practice Issues</u>
            <p>Use this attribute. It is important, and needs to be used systematically. Ignore if
                the person did not publish under the name captured. This attribute is attached to
                    <term keyref="birth-name">BIRTHNAME</term>, not its sub-tags <term
                    keyref="surname">SURNAME</term> and <term keyref="given">GIVEN</term>. If she
                used her surname but not all her given names when she published, still include
                attribute. If she used given names but not patronym, do not use the attribute.
                    <codeph> E.g. &lt;BIRTHNAME
                    WROTEORPUBLISHEDAS=&quot;WrotePublishedAsYes&quot;&gt;&lt;GIVEN&gt;Mary&lt;/GIVEN&gt;&lt;GIVEN&gt;Kathleen&lt;/GIVEN&gt;&lt;GIVEN&gt;McCrory&lt;/GIVEN&gt;&lt;SURNAME&gt;Ackland&lt;/SURNAME&gt;&lt;/BIRTHNAME&gt;
                </codeph></p>
        </div>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
